Fact	<NAME>, C.J.
Fact	- This matter originally came before <NAME>, J., who referred it to the Chief Justice, under rule 3 of Chapter V of the Original Side Rules which is as follows :-  "Where it shall appear to any judge at any stage of a suit, application or other matter, that it involves a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of <ORG> Act, 1935, or any order in council made thereunder, he shall report to that effect to the Chief Justice, who shall constitute a Bench of two or more judges to hear the suit, application or other matter."
Argument	Put shortly the plaintiffs claim that certain provisions of the Indian Income-tax Act of 1922 as amended by the Income-tax Act of 1939 are beyond the law making powers of the Indian central <ORG> and that in consequence certain money they have paid under protest to <ORG> as income tax under the protest to <ORG> as income tax under the said provision was not legally payable by them; they claim a d eclaration that the said provision are ultra vires and ask for a return of the money so paid and other reliefs.
Argument	The defendants in their written statement have pleaded Section 226 of <ORG> Act, 1935, which in its material part provides :-  "<ORG> shall have any original jurisdiction in any matter concerning the revenue, or concerning any act ordered or done in the collection thereof according to the usage and practice of the country of the law for the time being in force."
Fact	In order to decide whether and to what extent this plea will avail the defendants it is necessary to go into the facts of the case and the relevant provision of the law.
Fact	There is no difference between the parties as to the facts.
Fact	The Governor-General in Council as representing <ORG> is a party to the suit and has appeared through <ORG>r <NAME>, the Advocate-General of Bengal, not acting as the Advocate General of Bengal, but as Counsel representing <ORG>; we were informed by <ORG> r <NAME> that it was not necessary to give special notice to <ORG> or <NAME> of India under Order XXVII-A of the Code of Civil Procedure as they were aware of the case and were represented by him.
Fact	The suit is brought by <ORG>, a joint stock company incorporated under the English Companies Act, having its registered office at 13, Athol Street, Douglas, in the Isle of Man and its main office at Egham, Surrey, England.
Fact	We are informed from the <ORG> that the reason for the <ORG> registration in the Isle of Man was to save registration fees.
Fact	For all practical purposes it is an English Company.
Fact	It has no business premises in India, but holds the bulk of the shares in a number of companies which carry on the business of manufacturing and selling tobacco and cigarettes in India.
Fact	These companies are as follows : (1) <ORG>; and (2) <ORG> The two above companies which are referred to as "the rupee compani es" are incorporation in India under the Indian Companies Act and have their registered offices and business headquarters at 37, Chowringhee, Calcutta, within the original jurisdiction of this Court.
Fact	(3) <ORG>; (4) <ORG>; (5) <ORG>; (6) <ORG>; (7) <ORG>; (8) <ORG>; (9) <ORG>; (10) <ORG>; and (11) <ORG>  The Companies Nos.
Fact	3 to 11 inclusive are companies under the English Companies acts and are referred to as "the sterling companies."
Fact	A statement was put in by the plaintiffs which is agreed by the defendants to be correct and it is as follows :  "The nine sterling companies are controlled in London where <ORG> sit, the share registers are situate, and dividends are declared.
Fact	The boards in London have constituted local boards which are situate in Indi a.
Fact	The business in India, where all profits are made, is managed by the local boards.
Fact	The ultimate control lies with the London boards.
Fact	No share registers are kept in India.
Fact	The financial policy of the companies is controlled by the London boards, and in all important matters of business the London boards are consulted.
Fact	All the the general meetings of the companies are held in England.
Fact	The registered offices of six of the sterling companies are in the Isle of Man and of three others in London, but all the sterling companies have officer in London."
Fact	Copies of Articles 97, 98 and 100 of the Memorandum of Association of the Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Ltd., are exhibited separately.
Fact	It is agreed that each of the other sterling companies contains similar Articles.
Fact	These are marked Exhibit B.
Fact	All the companies above concerned, with the exception of the plaintiffs, have carried on business in India and made profits here which have been assessed to income tax and super tax under the Indian Income tax laws and th ose taxes have been paid.
Fact	Dividends have been declared after payment of Indian Income-tax and super tax by the 11 companies, and the plaintiffs have received such dividends as they are entitled to on their share holdings in those eleven companies.
Fact	Dividends on the two rupee-companies were paid to a representative of the plaintiff company at 37, Chowringhee, Calcutta.
Fact	The dividends of the nine sterling companies were declared by them in England and paid by them in England to the plaintiff company in England.
Fact	On June 6, 1939, the Income-tax Officer, Companies District III, 3, Government Place West, Calcutta (which is within the jurisdiction of the Original Side of this Court) sent to the plaintiffs a notice under Section 22(2) and 38 of the India Income-tax Act of 1922, as follows :  "1.
Fact	In pursuance of the provisions of Section 22(2) of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, you are hereby required to prepare a true and correct statement of the companys total income and total world income during the previous years  in the attached form (along with such other particulars as are required to complete the form) and to deliver it to me at <ORG> office duly signed by you on behalf of the company on or before 12-7-1939 (or within 30 days of the reciept of the notice should the former dte be less than 30 days after the receipt of the notice).
Fact	2.
Fact	The form contains the instructions required for the preparation of the return.
Fact	If you desire any further information, you should apply to this office.
Fact	A separate form for making this return is annexed."
Fact	That notice was addressed to <ORG>, at 37, Chowringhee, Calcutta.
Fact	The plaintiffs have no business premises in India, but the notice was forwarded by some one at 37, Chowringhee to the plaintiff in England who made a return signed by their Secretary on August 18, 1939, giving their address as "Westminster House, 7 Millbank, London SW.I."
Fact	That return apparently was sent by the plaintiffs from London to 37, Chowringhee, Calcutta, from which address it was forward ed on August 25, 1939, to the same Income-tax officer by one <NAME> with the fooling covering letter.
Fact	"Dear Sir, At the request of <ORG> I pass on to you herewith their return under Section 22 in respect of the income-tax year 1939-40."
Fact	On September 11, 1939, the same Income-tax officer wrote to the plaintiffs at <ORG>, a letter with regard to the assessment for 1939-40 asking to be furnished with certificate under Sections 20 in respect of dividends received during the year ending March 31, 1939.
Fact	There was further correspondence in which on each occasion the Income-tax officer addressed the plaintiff at <ORG>, Calcutta, and eventually obtained replies through replies through <ORG>, Calcutta.
Fact	On April 3, 1940, the Income-tax Officer wrote a letter to the plaintiffs - C/o Messrs. <ORG> of India Ltd., <ORG>, Calcutta.
Fact	Paragraph 6 of this letter is as follows :-  "You are further requested to let me know that in view of Ex planation (3) to Section 4(1) of the Act, the dividends shown in Section D of the return being income accruing or arising in British India and thus liable to be included in total income, it appears that the total income accruing or arising in British India exceed the income arising without British India in the previous year and as such in terms of Section 4A [c] the company is to be treated as resident in British India and as such the entire profits are liable to be taxed."
Fact	(the letter is reproduced as put in evidence, the wording is faulty.)
Fact	Paragraph 7 as follows :-  "You are requested to let me know if you have anything to urge against this."
Fact	On June 3, 1940, the plaintiffs replied from Rusham House, Egham, Surrey, to which address they had apparently removed from Millbank, London, as follows :  "Dear Sir, Your letter of the April 3, addressed to this company, care of the <ORG> of <ORG>, Calcutta has been forward to us."
Fact	The Company contends that dividends declared outside Br itish India are not income accruing or arising in British India on the following grounds :  (a) Explanation (3) to Section 4(1) of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, as amended by the Indian Income tax Amendment Act , 1939 on its true construction refers to dividends declared within British India but paid outside British India, and not to dividends declared outside British India.
Fact	(b) Alternatively, if on its true construction the said Explanation refers to dividends declared outside British India the Explanation is ultra vires <ORG> which is not empowered under the Government of India Act, 1935, to income a tax on persons not resident in British India in respect of income which does not arise in British India.
Fact	Dividends declared outside British India are debts arising outside British India.
Fact	If follows that the company cannot be treated as resident in British India as the dividends shown in section C of the Return are not income accruing or arising in British India and cannot be deemed  so to accrue or arise, and in consequence, the income to the company arising in British India (shown in Section A of the return) does not exceed its income arising outside British India.
Fact	The above deals with paragraphs 1, 2, 6 and 7 of your letter.
Fact	As regards paragraph 3, I would confirm that <ORG> and London and <ORG>, are not assessed to tax British India.
Fact	In reply to paragraph 4 of your letter, the direct profits represent income other than dividends which arose from business carried on out side British India.
Fact	Copies of certificates where income tax has been deducted from dividends shown in Section C of the Return asked for under paragraph 5 of your letter, are enclosed herewith, together with profit and loss account requested to be furnished under paragraph 8.
Fact	Nothing arises under paragraph 9 as this company has no representative in India."
Fact	The contention in paragraph 6 of the letter of the Income-tax officer dated April 3, 1940, that "the total income acc ruing or arising in British India exceeds the income arising without British India in the previous year and as such in terms of Section 4-A (c) the company is to be treated as resident in British India and as such the entire profits are liable to be taxed" has since been dropped.
Statute	It is convenient here to set out Section 4(1)(c) of the Act and Explanation (3) which were added to the Indian Income-tax act of 1922 by the Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Act of 1939 :  "4.
Statute	(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the total income of any previous year of any person includes all income, profits and gains from whatever source derived which -  (c) if such person is not resident in British India during such year, accrue or arise or are deemed to accrue or arise to him in British India during such year."
Statute	Explanation is as follows :-  "A dividend paid without British India shall be deemed to be income accruing and arising in British India to the extent to which it has been paid out of profits subjected to income tax in  British India."
Fact	At this time communications between India and England had become more difficult.
Fact	On August 2, 1940, the Income-tax officer sent another notice under Section 22 of the Income-tax Act to the plaintiffs, and on August 3, Mr. <NAME>, an Accountant of <ORG>, at 37, Chowringhee informed the Income-tax Officer of the difficulty in getting a reply from <ORG>, and asked for an extension of time up till October 31, 1940.
Fact	On August 6, the Income-tax replied to the Accountant extending the time for the submission of the return to November 4, 1940.
Fact	On September 13, the plaintiffs from England wrote to the Income- tax officer direct adding another plea of ultra vires.
Fact	On October 15, the plaintiffs wrote from England direct to the Income-tax Officer, who received the letter on December 17, furnishing further returns in respect of <ORG>  On December 23, 1940, the Income-tax Officer made an assessment upon the plaintif fs of Rs.
Fact	72,047/- in respect of income-tax and Rs.
Fact	3,73,155 - 13 - 0 in respect of super-tax.
Fact	These assessments were as follows : "<ORG>, received the following dividends -  From <ORG>, of India, Ltd.  on 30-9-38 Net.
Fact	Rs.
Fact	Gross.
Fact	Rs.
Fact	Co., of India, Ltd.  & 29-3-29 11,58,000 13,57,086 <ORG>  In Sep. 39 and March 39 1,25,000 " 1,46,490 15,03,576."
Fact	(The net amounts referred to are net amounts of dividend paid by the rupee companies to the plaintiffs after deducting the income tax and super tax which the two rupee companies had paid on their profits : the gross amount is the amount of the net together with the income-tax and super tax paid by each rupee company added back.
Fact	The dividends paid by the sterling companies to the plaintiffs amounted to 3,86,648 - 19 - 7 Pounds equivalent to Rs.
Fact	51,55,307/-.
Fact	The income-tax and super tax already paid by these companies on their profits in India was Rs.
Fact	8,86,314/-.
Fact	This was added to the Rs.
Fact	51,55,307/- givi ng a total for Indian Income-tax purposes of dividend received from the sterling-companies of Rs.
Fact	60,41,621/-.
Fact	There was therefore a grand total for purposes of assessment of Rs.
Fact	75,45,197/-.)
Fact	Upon that the plaintiffs were assessed as follows :  Rs.
Fact	Rs.
Fact	Rs.
Fact	"Total Income Rs.
Fact	75,45,197 Income-tax @ 30 pies 11,78,937 Tax paid 8,86,314 2,20,576 11,06,890 72,047 Super tax @ 12 pies 4,71,574 13 Deduct under Sec.
Fact	18(3) On 5-5-39 45,943 19-4-93 5,951 2 3,967 7 42,557 9 98,419 2 3,73,165 13 Total demand 4,48,201 13 On the same day a copy of this assessment was sent by the Income-tax officer together with a notice of demand under Section 29 of the Indian Income-tax Act to the plaintiffs at 37, Chowringhee Calcutta.
Fact	On January 2, 1941, Mr. <NAME> writing as a director of <ORG> wrote back to the Income-tax officer stating at follows :-  "Dear Sir, On Friday or Saturday last week delivery of a cover addressed to <ORG>, 37, Chowringhee, Calcutta, from your offi ce was incorrect accepted here.
Fact	You have already been advised that <ORG>, have no place of business nor any representative in this country, and you were informed of the address to which correspondence should be sent.
Fact	We have, on this occasion and without accepting any responsibility as to the ultimate delivery, re-addressed and air-mailed the cover to England; but if the contents called for an urgent replay of laid down a time limit within which some action should be performed, we would remind you that there is very considerable delay in the transmission of mails between this country and the United Kingdom."
Fact	On February 19, the plaintiff company from England telegraphed to the Income-tax Officer, Calcutta, intimating to him that they would appeal against the assessment and on February 21, the Income-tax Officer replied by telegram : "appeal accepted if posted March 19.
Fact	Arrange payment by March 15."
Fact	On February 24, 1941, the Income-tax officer wrote to <ORG>,  Ltd., in England as follows :-  "With reference to your cable dated February 19, 1941, I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of computation of assessment for 1938-40 with the request to pay up the demand as early as possible."
Fact	That was received by the plaintiffs on May 13, 1941.
Fact	On February 28, the plaintiffs from London cabled the Income-tax Officer as follows : "Your cable 22nd requiring payment by March 15.
Fact	Are you prepared to exercise discretion under Section 45 .
Fact	Treat assessee as not in default whilst appeal indisposed of."
Fact	On March 5, the Income-tax Officer cabled to the plaintiffs in England in reply : "Your cable 28.
Fact	Sorry cannot exercise discretion under Section 45 .
Fact	Arrange payment by March 15."
Fact	On or about March 12, 1941, the plaintiffs under protest remitted to the Income tax authorities in Calcutta by telegraphic transfer from England the amount of the assessment and demand, viz., Rs.
Fact	4,45,202-13-0.
Fact	The plaintiffs said that they paid the sum under protest in order to avoid penalties and  other proceedings that might be taken against them as an assessee in default under the provisions of the Indian Income-tax Act .
Fact	There are various provisions in Section 46 of the Indian Income-tax Act under which the Income-tax authorities in India might have caused to be attached either the plaintiffs share in the rupee companies or the dividends payable to the plaintiffs on these shares.
Fact	Doubtless the plaintiffs were afraid there might be such attachment unless they paid and of course they were minded to appeal against assessment.
Fact	Such an appeal, dated March 11, 1941, when received in India was actually lodged by a Mr. <NAME>, a solicitor of <ORG> on or about June 4, 1941.
Fact	In the grounds of appeal the plaintiffs letters of June 3 and September 13, 1940, which had been before <ORG> when he made the assessment.
Fact	The Income-tax Officer, as the assessment shows, rejected paragraph (a) of the plaintiffs objections in the letter of June 3.
Fact	He did not deal with the question of ultra vires .
Fact	On August 21, 1941, Mr. <NAME> wrote to the Appellate Assistant commissioner of Income-tax as follows :-  "In view of certain constitutional questions which are raised by some of <ORG> in this case, <ORG>, has been advised to take other proceedings to have those questions determined.
Fact	What form those proceedings should take is now under consideration.
Fact	In the meantime, <ORG>, does not wish to abandon its rights under the Act respecting the assessment on the constitutional question or on the other grounds raised.
Fact	In the circumstances, I request that you would be good enough to allow the appeal to remain in abeyance by adjourning it sine die until such time as <ORG>, been [Sic] able to decided upon its other course of action."
Fact	On November 11, 1941, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner wrote to Mr. <NAME> as follows :-  "The request in your letter 21-8-41 is unusual and your proposed proceedings relating to the consti tutional issues cannot arise under the Indian Income tax Act under certain provisions of which in am to here and decided the appeal.
Fact	The procedure under this act has to be followed.
Fact	If is decide against you, you may go to <ORG> against whose order, if advised, you may ask for a Reference to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	I do not propose therefore to keep the appeal in abeyance as you suggest and request you to let me know when Mr. <NAME> will be available in case you want him to appear at all.
Fact	On hearing from you I shall try to fix an early date but I am so heavily booked ahead for a long time that I cannot at this stage foresee the date.
Fact	As Saturdays are <ORG> holidays, may not a Saturday, if possible this month, suit you and Mr. <NAME> ?"
Fact	On November 17, 1941, Mr. <NAME> wrote back that Mr. <NAME> was busy and that he was awaiting instructions from England on the question of the appropriate procedure to be adopted by the assesses.
Fact	He appealed to the Appellate Assistant commissioner not to fix a date  for the hearing of the Appeal before the middle of January.
Fact	The Appellate Assistant Commissioner replied by giving a notice on November 27 fixing January 17, 1942, for the hearing and final disposal of the appeal.
Fact	On December 16, 1941, the plaintiffs gave a written notice to the Secretary to <ORG> of <ORG>, New Delhi, setting out the facts and stating that they intended upon the expiration of two months from that date they intended upon the expiration of two months from that date to file a suit in <ORG> at Calcutta, against the Governor General in Council claiming the reliefs which have now been claimed.
Fact	This notice was given pursuant to Section 8 of the code of Civil Procedure.
Fact	On January 16, 1942, Mr. <NAME> on behalf of the plaintiffs gave notice to the Appellate Assistant commissioner in Calcutta that he did not propose to proceed with the appeal against the assessment under the Income-tax Act .
Fact	Under the provisions of the Indian Income-tax Act there is  an appeal from the assessment by an Income tax officer to the Appellate Assistant Income tax Commissioner under Section 30 of the Act, and from him to <ORG> consists of two members, one of whom was judicial experience and is generally an ex District Judge whilst the other is an Accountant.
Fact	<ORG> may state a case for the opinion of the High court functions with regard to such case stated are to advice on the law and from its judgment or opinion there is an appeals to <ORG>.
Fact	On April 17, the plaintiffs began the present proceedings in this court claiming :  (1) a declaration that in so far as explanation 3 and the other provisions of Section 4 of the Indian Income-tax Act purport to authorize the assessment and charging to tax of a non resident company in respect of dividends which have been declared and or paid outside British India upon shares situate outside British India but which have never been brought into British India, the said provisions are ultra vires th e legislative powers of <ORG> and that therefore the plaintiff company is not liable to be assessed or charged to income tax or super tax in respect of the said assessment for the year 1938-40 was illegal and wrongful :  (2) an injunction restraining the defendant, his officers, servants or agents from making any further assessment upon the plaintiff company in any subsequent years in respect of dividends of sterling companies declared and paid outside British India and not brought into British India;  (3) repayment of the said total sum of Rs.
Fact	4,35,290-5-0 as income- tax and super-tax illegally levied and/or as money paid under coercion or duress and/or as money had and received by the defendant to the use of the plaintiff company;  (4) interest upon the said sum of Rs.
Fact	57,689/- and Rs.
Fact	3,73,155-13-0 (portions of the said total sum of Rs.
Fact	4,35,290-5-0) under the Interest Act at the rate of 12 per centum per annum as from the December 22, 1941 until judgment, and further interest from  the date of judgment until payment upon the whole of the said sum of Rs.
Fact	4,35,290-5-0 at the rate of 6 per centum per annum or such other rate as may be allowed by this <ORG>; and (5) such further or other relief as the <ORG> shall deem just.
Fact	Referring back to the assessment it will be noticed that the plaintiffs claim the return of Rs.
Fact	57,689/- instead of Rs.
Fact	72,047/- and Rs.
Fact	4,35,290-5-0/- instead of Rs.
Fact	4,45,202-13-0 paid.
Fact	The reason for this is that the plaintiffs do not question the right of the Government to tax they in respect of the rupee-companies dividends which the plaintiffs received in India.
Fact	We are, therefore, not concerned in this case with the question of taxation of the dividends received from the rupee-companies.
Fact	The sum of Rs.
Fact	57,689/- arises in this way : the dividends received by the plaintiffs from the two rupee-companies and the sterling companies were taxed to income-tax under Finance Act of 1938 at the rate of twenty six pies per rupee and the total of the income tax paid by the rupe e companies amounted to Rs.
Fact	11,06,890/-.
Argument	The Government have taxed the plaintiffs in respect of the same amount of income when received by them at the rate of thirty pies per rupee under the Finance Act of 1939.
Argument	This income-tax amounted to Rs.
Argument	11,78,937/-.
Argument	Section 49B of the Income-tax Act provides :  "Where a shareholder has received a dividend from a company which has paid income tax imposed in British India or elsewhere, he shall be deemed, in respect of such dividend, himself to have paid the income tax [exclusive of super tax paid by the company on so much of the dividend as bears to the whole the same proportion as the amount of income on which the company has paid such income tax bears to the whole income of the company."
Argument	There is no similar provision in respect of super tax which is a flat rate tax payable by companies as well as individuals.
Argument	The consequence is that the income tax authorities gave the plaintiffs credit for the income tax paid by the two rupee and nine sterling companies, viz., Rs.
Fact	11 ,06,890/- against the income tax demanded of <ORG>, viz., Rs.
Fact	11,78,939/-.
Fact	The difference is Rs.
Fact	72,047/- which is a part of the money the plaintiffs paid.
Fact	Of that amount of tax a certain proportion is attributable to the dividend received from the rupee companies about which there is now no dispute.
Fact	The proportionate amount attributable to the sterling companies is Rs.
Fact	57,689/-.
Fact	As regards the item of Rs.
Fact	3,73,155-13-0 this is super tax paid by the plaintiffs in respect of the income received by them from the rupee companies (Rs.
Fact	15,03,576/-) and the sterling companies (Rs.
Fact	60,41,621/-) in all (Rs.
Fact	75,45,197/-).
Fact	Each of the rupee companies and the sterling companies had already paid super tax on their respective profits at the flat rate before before they paid their dividends to the plaintiffs.
Fact	Section 18 (3-D) of the Income-tax Act provides that an Income-tax officer, it he has reason to believe that a non resident shareholder would be liable to super-tax, may direct the prin cipal officer of the company to deduct super-tax at the time of the payment of the dividend.
Fact	Further under Section 18 (3-E) it is the duty of such principal officer, even if he receives no direction to deduct super tax from the dividend payable to a non resident share holder, if the amount of such dividend payable is found to have reached the limit at which super tax begins to be chargeable.
Fact	The rupee companies made this deduction before paying their dividends to the plaintiffs.
Fact	The rate of super tax in 1938 when the deduction was made was thirteen pies in the rupee.
Fact	The rate of super tax in 1939 when the plaintiffs submitted to payment of super-tax on their dividends from the rupee companies was only twelve pies in the rupee.
Argument	The result is that the plaintiffs were over charged and made overpayment to the extent of Rs.
Argument	4,455-10-0. Credit is given for this in the assessment.
Argument	As regards the sterling companies, although they were paying super tax on their own profits in India, they did not before declaring thei r dividends make any deduction under Section 18 (3-D) and Section 16 (3-E).
Fact	The result is that the plaintiffs have been assessed on their income from the sterling companies (Rs.
Fact	60,41,621/-) to super tax for the year 1939 to the amount of Rs.
Fact	3,77,601-5-0.
Fact	Hence the net assessment of the plaintiff company for super-tax for the year 1939 was Rs.
Fact	3,77,601-5-0 less the credit from the rupee-companies over-deduction of super-tax Rs.
Fact	4,455-10-0, that is, Rs.
Fact	3,73,155-13-0.
Fact	All the profits and gains of the sterling companies in India had already been fully assessed and taxed to super-tax in India before the plaintiffs received their dividends from those profits.
Fact	The defendants have taxed the plaintiffs and the plaintiffs have paid in all Rs.
Fact	57,689/- as income-tax together with Rs.
Fact	3,73,155-13-0 as super-tax under the defendants assessment and demand, and their claim is to recover it.
Fact	On the profits of the sterling companies on which taxes are levied, the proper taxes in India have been paid by the sterling compani es before the dividends were declared by the sterling companies.
Fact	As this case may well go to other Courts which may wish to have details of these taxes explained to them I asked the Income-tax authorities who were present in Court to be good enough to prepare a table with necessary explanations to show, how the taxes have been arrived at.
Fact	The table and the explanations are exhibited and marked Exhibit 1.
Argument	The written statement put in by the defendant admits in paragraph 2 that the dividends of the sterling companies were declared, paid and received in England and that the plaintiffs were assessed on such a basis.
Argument	In paragraph 3 the defendant pleads that -  "The plaintiff company is the principal shareholder in all the rupee companies as well as the sterling companies referred to in paragraph 2 of the plaint.
Argument	As such the plaintiff company controls the business and trade of all the said companies in British India.
Precedent	In any event the plaintiff company has sufficient interest in the capital and assets of the said  companies employed in British India and in the trading operations of the said companies in British India to make it liable to Indian Income-tax in respect of income arising out of such trading operations."
RatioOfTheDecision	This pleas has not been developed, but is I believe disposed of hereafter in this judgment.
Argument	The defendant denies that the sums paid by the plaintiffs were paid under any coercion or duress.
Argument	He also denies that provisions of Explanation 3 to Section 4(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act are ultra vires of the legislative powers of <ORG> as defined by the Government of India Act, 1935.
Argument	Lastly, in paragraph 11 of the written statement there is this plea :  "The plaintiff company has no cause of action.
Argument	In any event the defendant will object and contend that this Court has no jurisdiction to entertain this suit by virtue of Section 226 of the Government of India Act."
Statute	Section 226 of the Government of India Act provides :  "(1) Until otherwise provided by Act of the appropriate legislatur e, no <ORG> shall have any original jurisdiction in any matter concerning the revenue, or concerning any act ordered or done in the collection thereof according to the usage and practice of the country or the law for the time being in force.
Precedent	(2) A Bill or amendment for making such provision as aforesaid shall not be introduced into or moved in <ORG> or <ORG> without the previous sanction of the Governor-General in his discretion or, as the case may be, of the Governor in his discretion."
Argument	Defendants Counsel in this case has argued very strenuously, under instruction of his client through <ORG>, that Section 226 of the Government of India Act precluded us from entertaining this suit in any form.
RatioOfTheDecision	This attitude is strange in view of the fact that in two cases which intimately concerned the revenue the plea was apparently not raised.
Precedent	I refer to the case of the <CITATION_819589> for India in Council reported in I.L.R.
Precedent	56 Bom.
Precedent	313 and the case of th e <CITATION_1649618> for India in Council reported in L.R.
Precedent	65 I.A.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	In each of these cases the plaintiffs under protest paid duty levied by the Customs Authorities at Bombay under the Sea Customs Act, 1878, and then brought proceedings in <ORG> at Bombay to recover amounts of money which they claimed were illegally levied as duty upon their goods.
Precedent	In each case the suit was brought against the Secretary of <ORG>, who stood in the same position as the Governor-General does in this case, on the Original Side of <ORG> in Bombay.
Precedent	<ORG> was successful in the Court of first instance, unsuccessful in <ORG> at Bombay and successful in <ORG>.
Precedent	In the other case <ORG> were substantially unsuccessful in the Court of first instance and also an appeal to <ORG> and in <ORG>.
Argument	There is no evidence of any plea of Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1935, or its predecessor Section 106(2) of the Government of In dia Act, 1915, being raised although Sea Customs Duty is just as much revenue as income-tax.
Argument	However, the matter must be decided according to law.
RatioOfTheDecision	This particular section, except where it provide for its repeal, substantially re-enacts Section 8 of the Act of Settlement, 1781.
RatioOfTheDecision	This Section was enacted to prevent <ORG> in Calcutta from interfering with the <ORG> collection of land revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has been retained in successive enactments and, in particulars, Section 106(2) of the Government of India Act, 1915.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be noticed that it is only the exercise of the original jurisdiction of <ORG> that is forbidden.
RatioOfTheDecision	The exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of <ORG> is not forbidden.
RatioOfTheDecision	Had the offices of the Income-tax Officer been two miles south of where they are now and so outside the ordinary original jurisdiction of this Court (which extends only to the limited part of Calcutta which is bounded by the Circular Road and the river Hooghly but contains the business part ) the present proceedings would have been started before a Sub-ordinate Judge in <ORG> which is in greater Calcutta and come to this Court to be dealt with on appeal without Section 226 being pleadable.
RatioOfTheDecision	Both the plaintiffs solicitors office and <ORG> where the money was paid are within the ordinary original jurisdiction of this Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some very severe strictures have been passed by <ORG> in Bombay and Madras on the bar which Section 226 and its predecessors have raised to the original jurisdiction of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	I can only add my comment that its retention is an impediment to justice being had by those who reside or do business in the city of Calcutta.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not in the interests of the subject and it is not in the real interests of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has been used in the present case to hinder a British national who is not resident in India from obtaining a judicial determination of his rights.
Fact	It has been argued that the proper and only course for the plaintiffs to ha ve taken to raise this matter was to appeal from the Income-tax Officer to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, then to <ORG> and then by way of a case stated to <ORG> under Sections 66 and 66A of the Indian Income-tax Act.
Fact	It will be recollected that the plaintiffs raised the question of Section 4(1)(c) , Explanation (3), being ultra vires before the Income-tax officer who did not deal with it but made the assessment.
Fact	It will be remembered that Mr. <NAME> on August 21, 1941, mentioned this constitutional question to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and stated that the form of the proceedings to raise it was under consideration and asked for an adjournment.
Argument	The Appellate Assistant Commissioner replied : "Your proposed proceedings relating to the constitutional issues cannot arise under the Income-tax Act under certain provisions of which I am to here and decide the appeal."
Argument	I think the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, although he, like the Income-tax Officer, is not a lawyer, r ealised that in giving a decision on the validity of Section 4(1)(c) , Explanation (3), he would be going beyond both his authority and legal capacity.
Argument	He was employed to administer the Act and he had to take the Act as he found it.
Argument	Section 30(i) says :  "Any assessee..... denying his liability to be assessed under this Act........ may appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner."
RatioOfTheDecision	In that appeal both parties had to take the Act as they found it, not the Act with Explanation [3] of Section 4  [c] treated as in doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears to me that <ORG>, although one of the two members of it is a gentleman with judicial experience, must take the Act as they find it and not call it in question.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 66 provides that within sixty days of the date on which he is served with a notice of an order under Section 33  the assessee or the Commissioner may require <ORG> to refer to <ORG> any question of law arising out of such order.
RatioOfTheDecision	I doubt whether the validity of Explanation [ 3] to Section 4  [c] would arise out of the order.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover raising that question in a reference would present the <ORG> with serious difficulties since it would not have evidence before it but only a statement of facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	If a constitutional question of this sort is to be raised it ought to be raised before a court which can bring every available fact before it to consider the matter in question in the proper way.
Statute	From the decision of the High <ORG>, as Section 66A  provides :-  "An appeal shall lie to His Majesty in Council from any judgment of the High <ORG> delivered on a reference made under Section 66 in any case which the High <ORG> certifies to be a fit one for appeal to His Majesty in Council."
Statute	Section 66A was amended in 1938 after the Government of India Act had been passed.
Statute	No provision has been made in it for an appeal to the Federal <ORG>.
Statute	Under Section 205 of the Government of India Act it is provided that an appeal shall lie to the Federal <ORG> from a judgment of a High <ORG> if the High <ORG>  certifies that the case involves a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of <ORG> Act, 1935, and it shall be the duty of <ORG> to consider in every case whether any such question is involved, and on its own motion give or withhold a certificate accordingly.
Statute	Section 205  provides :  "Where such a certificate is given, any party in the case may appeal to <ORG> on the ground that any such question as aforesaid has been wrongly decided.... and no direct appeal shall lie to His Majesty in Council, either with or without special leave."
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case a very important question as to the law-making powers of <ORG> under Sections 99 and 100 and List 1, Item 54, of Schedule VII of the Act is involved.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is therefore imperative that the appeal from <ORG> should be to <ORG>.
Argument	It would seem therefore that appeals from <ORG> in cases involving questions of law as to the interpretation of <ORG> Act,  1935, cannot go direct to <ORG> but must go first to <ORG>, and as appeals from judgments in references under Section 66 of the Income-tax Act must go to <ORG> and not to <ORG>, and as this matter involved basically a decision upon a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Government of India Act, 1935, a suit at law and not a reference under Section 66 of the Income-tax Act is the proper procedure.
Argument	The plaintiffs claim in this suit is first to have Explanation (3) to Section 4(1)(c) together with relevant words of Section 4(1)(c) declared invalid, and then the return of the money they have paid together with other connected reliefs.
Argument	A decision in this suit will clearly affect the amount of money the Government will be able to collect as income-tax both in the year in question and in subsequent years.
Argument	The suit would therefore appear to be one "concerning the revenue".
RatioOfTheDecision	It is necessary however to consider what the word "revenue" means.
Statute	In 178 1, when prohibition against <ORG> exercising original jurisdiction in matters concerning the revenue clearly meant income from land, but in 1935, when prohibition against <ORG> exercising original jurisdiction in matters concerning the revenue was first introduced into the Act of Settlement, revenue clearly meant income from land, but in 1935, when the same provision was substantially re-enacted, revenue, in view of the provisions of Sections 136 and 138 of the Act of 1935, would clearly include money derived from income-tax.
Argument	In the present case the plaintiffs say that the money they have paid as a result of the assessment and demand for income-tax is demanded under an invalid provision of law and therefore the money is not money paid under the law but is an illegal exaction.
Argument	If the money is not income-tax money but an illegal exaction it is money to which <ORG> has no legal claim or legal right and in that event it is money which <ORG> ought to re pay to the plaintiffs.
Argument	Is such money revenue ?
Statute	The Concise Oxford Dictionary defines "revenue" to be : "The states annual income from which public expenses are met."
RatioOfTheDecision	Such definition accords very clearly with the ordinary consumption of revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case the money the plaintiffs paid went into the <ORG> revenue account about March 15, 1941.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that sense it was, when paid, revenue, as would be all similar subsequent payments when made.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the relevant financial year ended on March 31, 1941, that money in all human probability would have been spent by April 17, 1942, when its return was claimed in this suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	On April 17, 1942, the money was strictly speaking no longer revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whatever the position of this money on April 17, 1942, it if was demanded and obtained without any legal authority, it is the <ORG> duty to refund it or its equivalent which is the same thing.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, be that as it may, in the present case the <ORG> is concerned with the legal rights and liabilities of the parties  and therefore in my opinion the word "revenue" in Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1935, must be taken to mean what is revenue according to law or shortly "legal revenue" and not illegal exactions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, before it can be decided that Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1936, is a bar to the <ORG> jurisdiction, the <ORG> must decide whether the money the plaintiffs paid was tax imposed under legal authority or illegal exaction.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the money was paid as a result of a demand for income-tax legally imposed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> can exercise no original jurisdiction concerning it in a suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the money was paid as the result of a demand made without legal authority the money is money illegally obtained and held to the use of the plaintiffs and there is no bar under Section 226 to our exercising original jurisdiction concerning it in this suit, nor under Section 67 of the Indian Income-tax Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	In order to decide whether the money has been demanded and paid legally the <ORG> must first determine whethe r the impugned legislation is valid or not.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Court is bound to inquire into and decide this matter to ascertain whether it has jurisdiction or not.
Statute	Section 99  of the Government of India Act provides : "Subject to the provisions of this Act.
Statute	<ORG> may make laws for the whole or any part of British India or for any Federated State."
Statute	<ORG> is not yet in being but <ORG> has meanwhile the same law-making powers as those given by the Act to <ORG> : Section 316 of the Act.
Statute	Section 99  of the same Act provides :  "Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by the preceding sub-section, no Federal law shall, on the ground that it would have extra-territorial operation, be deemed to be invalid in so far as it applies -  (a) to British subjects and servants of the Crown in any part of In dia; or  (b) to British subjects who are domiciled in any part of India wher ever they may be; or  (c) to, or to persons on, ships or aircraft regist ered in British India or any Federated State wherever they may be; or  (d) in the case of a law with respect to a matter accepted in the Instrument of Accession of a Federated State as a matter with respect to which <ORG> may make laws for that State, to subjects of that State wherever they may be; or  (e) in the case of a law for the regulation or discipline of any naval, military or air force raised in British India, to members of, and persons attached to, employed with or following, that force wherever they may be."
Statute	Section 100 provides that <ORG> has power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List 1 of the VIIth Schedule.
Statute	Item 54 of List 1 reads : "Taxes on income other than agricultural income."
Statute	Summing up the <ORG> relevant powers in 1939 under Sections 99(1) , 100 and Item 54 of List 1, they were "to make laws for the whole or any part of British India with respect to taxes on income other than agricultural income."
Statute	Prima facie such laws could have no operation outside British India but Section 99(2) provides that in certain specified cases in respect of certain specified classes of persons in certain areas outside British India either specified or indicated those laws may operate :  (1) as far as British subjects and servants of the <ORG> are conce rned in any part of India;  (2) as far as British subjects domiciled in India are concerned, wherever they may be;  (3) as far as persons on ships or aircraft registered in British India wherever they may be;  (4) as far as members of and persons attached to or employed with or following naval, military or air force raised in British India, they may be subject to laws passed by the Indian <ORG> to regulate or discipline them, wherever they may be.
Statute	Again in List 1 of Schedule VII there are the following matters on which <ORG> may legislate :  Item 3.
Statute	Extradition and expulsion of criminals and other persons to parts of his Majestys dominions outside Ind ia;  Item 22.
Statute	Declaration and delimitation of ports;  Item 23.
Statute	Fishing and fisheries beyond territorial waters;  Item 24.
Statute	Regulation and organization of air traffic;  Item 25.
Statute	Lightships, beacons and other provisions for the safety of shipping and aircraft.
Statute	All these matters contemplate the making of laws which may in some events and to some extent be operative beyond British India.
Statute	It is difficult to state the precise effect of the words in Section 99(2) "without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by the preceding sub-section...." They are however clearly precautionary and probably mean that laws made for British India, even when they do not come within the cases sets out in Section 99(2) , may in certain eventualities which are either too numerous or uncertain to specify, have some extra-territoriality; such as in the cases prescribed for in Items 3, 21, 23, 24 and 25 of List I, or where anti-smuggling laws are made as related in <NAME> v. <NAME>.
Statute	There may be other such cases.
Statute	Such extra -territoriality would be of the kind and decree necessary to give efficacy to the legislation as it affected British India-small extensions for such purpose, perhaps into no-mans air or water, or perhaps by agreement with a neighbouring State into that State; all other valid extra-territorial legislation must come within Section 99(2)(a) , (b), (c), (d) and (e).
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> Lord <NAME> said : "Where a power is conferred to legislate on a particular topic it is important in determining the scope of the power to have regard to what is ordinarily treated as embraced within that topic in legislative practice and particularly in the legislative practice of the State which has conferred the power."
Precedent	In Vol.
Precedent	47 of the 2nd edition of Halsburys Laws of England which deals with England Income-tax law as at April 1, 1935, just before the Government of India Act, 1935, was passed, there is this statement of the English Income-tax Law, at page 11 :  "The income arising abroad to non-resident is not within the c harge to tax, and non-residents also enjoy specific exemption in certain cases (set out in footnote :-Interest and dividends of a foreign State or British possession payable in the U.K., through a paying agent)."
Argument	It therefore appears that when <ORG> Act, 1935, was passed it was not the legislative practice of Great Britain to tax non-residents upon income received from outside the U.K., or in certain cases from inside the U.K.  As regards the position in British India in 1935 Sir <NAME> for <ORG> referred the Court to Section 42 of the Indian Income-tax Act prevailing at the time.
Statute	It provided as follows :  "In the case of any person residing out of British India, all profits or gains accruing or arising to such person, whether directly or indirectly, through or from any business connection or property in British India, shall be deemed to be income accruing or arising within British India, and shall be chargeable to income-tax in the name of the agent of any such person,  and such agent shall be deemed to be, for all the purposes of this Act, the assessee in respect of such income-tax :  Provided that any arrears of tax may be recovered also in accordance with the provisions of this Act from any assets of the non-resident person which are, or may at any time come, within British India."
Statute	This section provided for the assessment and taxation of the foreigners India agent, and I doubt if it is extra-territorial in it affect.
Precedent	The position as regards extra-territorial taxation of a foreigner was considered by <ORG> in 1931 in the case of the <CITATION_17843> , where <ORG> attempted to assess a non resident person in respect of dividends declared in England by companies registered in England but doing business in India.
Precedent	The Court held that the non-resident was not so taxable.
Precedent	It appears therefore that in 1935, legislation in India did not tax non-residents on income received abroad from companies registered in England although those co mpanies traded in India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, had such been the position, the present legislation now objected to would probably not have been passed by the Indian Income-tax Amendment Act , 1939.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reference to the legal position with regard to this matter in England and in India in 1936 does not mean that the Income-tax law in India after 1935 is to remain unchanged and unchangeable, but it does lend some support to the view that where the British Government had refrained from extra-territorial legislation involving taxation of non-residents upon income received by them abroad, it did not in the absence of express enactment intend to confer such power upon <ORG> by the Act of 1935.
RatioOfTheDecision	Extra-territorial legislation is apt to produce friction between States and this is certainly so where one State takes another States nationals as Lord <NAME> pointed out in <NAME> v. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The reactions to the assessment and demand for tax might have been much different in the present case had the plaintiffs been an <ORG> an Company instead of a British Company.
RatioOfTheDecision	The dividends in respect of which tax has been claimed and paid in the present case were all dividends declared abroad by foreign Companies with registered offices, head offices and share registers either in England or in the Isle of Man (and were payable and paid either in England or in the Isle of Man) to the plaintiffs, a company registered in the Isle of Man with its head office in England.
Argument	The dividends concerned were therefore debts arising abroad and paid abroad by Companies resident out of British India to the plaintiffs, another Company resident out of British India : see <ORG> v. <ORG> [Australia] Ltd.
Argument	The effect of the words in Section 4(1)(c) "or are deemed to accrue or arise to him" combined with Explanation (3) "a dividend paid without British India shall be deemed to be income accruing and arising in British India to the extent to which it has been paid out of profits subjected to income-tax i n British India" is, as the facts of the present case show, to make liable to tax in British India foreign money measured in a foreign currency paid in a foreign country by one foreign <ORG> to another foreign <ORG> in discharge of a debt which arose and was payable in that foreign country.
Argument	The condition attached "to the extent to which it has been paid out of profits subjected to income-tax in British India" does not make the money any less foreign money nor does it alter the nature or incidents of the debt.
Argument	Further the money in question sought to be taxed was derived from the whole of the sterling dividend paying Companies operations and not from any particular part again, if in law the money sought to be taxed could by Explanation (3) to Section 4(1)(c) be attributed to source in British India, that money is the foreign exchange equivalent of money which has (as the Explanation postulates) been already subjected to tax in British India and therefore was received by the foreign dividend paying <ORG> f ree from liability to tax in British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	The provision in Section 4(1)(c) and the Explanation which is impugned is not legislation within the extra-territorial powers given in Section 99(2) of the Government of India Act since its operation is not limited to the persons and places named in Section 99(2) ; it is not legislation dealing with any of the matters mentioned in the Lists of Schedule VII in which some degree of extra-territorial legislation may be assumed were necessary to give efficacy to legislation for British India; it is something beyond all these.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is a case of <ORG> without specific or apparent authority stretching out its legislative arm and fiscal hands beyond British India into other countries in an attempt to tax persons and property there not subject to its laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my opinion, for the reasons given above, the legislation impugned is not authorised by any provision, either express or implied, of the Government of India Act, 1935, from which statute the  legislature of British India in 1939 derived its powers.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am therefore of opinion that the impugned legislation was and is beyond the law-making powers of <ORG> and therefore invalid.
RatioOfTheDecision	Consequently the words "or are deemed to accrue or arise" in Section 4(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act and Explanation (3) thereof are of no legal effect.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> were only able to obtain the money now claimed in this suit from the plaintiffs because they were in a position to treat, and intended to treat, plaintiffs as defaulter under the Income-tax Act and so collect the money with possible penalties under the provisions of Section 46 of the Act if the plaintiffs did not pay.
RatioOfTheDecision	The plaintiffs had good reason to believe that their property, i.e., the dividends from the rupee-companies in India, would be taken from them or from the companies that were due to pay money to them in India, if they did not yield to the Income-tax Officers illegal demand.
Precedent	In my view the plaintiffs were in the same pos ition as the plaintiff in the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> where the plaintiff <NAME> sold his goods in Spitalfields Market and had a demand made upon him by the defendant for tolls under the threat of seizure of his goods if he refused to pay.
Precedent	<NAME> objected to pay and seizure took place.
Argument	<NAME> then consulted a solicitor and upon learning that other dealers paid tolls he, acting upon his solicitors advice, paid the tolls under protest and did so always thereafter.
Argument	It was held that the circumstances of the payment and the conduct of the plaintiff throughout showed that he only paid to avoid seizure of his goods and never made payments voluntarily, or intended to give up his right to the sums paid, and that he was entitled to recover those tolls for a period of six years, the earlier payments being barred by the Statute of Limitation.
Argument	In delivering judgment Lord <NAME> said :  "If a person pays money, which he is not bound to pay, under the compulsion of urgent and pressing necessity of seizure actual or th reatened, of his goods, he can recover it as money had and received.
Argument	The money is paid not under duress in the strict sense of the term, as that implies duress of a person, but under the pressure of seizure or detention of goods which is analogous to that of duress.
Argument	Payment under such pressure establishes that the payment is not made voluntarily to close the transaction (per <NAME>, B., in <NAME> v. <NAME>).
Argument	The payment is made for the purpose of averting a threatened evil and is made not with the intention of giving up a right but under the immediate necessity and with the intention of preserving the right to dispute the legality of the demand (per <NAME>, C.J., in <NAME> v. <NAME>).
Argument	There are numerous instances in the books of successful claims in this form of action to recover money paid to relieve goods from seizure."
Argument	At page 126 of the report <NAME>, L.J., said :  "I do not think that the mere fact that a payment is made under protest is enough to entitle the payer to recover it back, but if it be sh own that it was made under circumstances which show that the payer intends to resist the claim and yields to it merely for the purpose of relieving himself of the inconvenience of having his goods sold, the money can be recovered back, and the fact of a protest is some indication that it is so made."
Argument	It is inconceivable that the plaintiffs in the present case would under protest have paid money from England in the way they did over four lakhs of rupees - or in English currency over 30,000 Pounds - to the Income-tax Officer in Calcutta but for the fact that the Income-tax Officer held threats of the Income-tax Act over their heads and the fear that he would use powers under Section 46 to take the plaintiffs money coming from the rupee company whether they liked it or not.
Argument	Having found that the money now claimed was money paid by the plaintiffs to <ORG> as aforesaid as a result of a demand made under a law which <ORG> had no power to make and so an invalid law, I am of the  opinion that the suit does not concern revenue in the sense used in Section 226 , viz., legal revenue, and that therefore the provisions of Section 226 of the Government of India Act do not bar our jurisdiction.
Argument	I am therefore of opinion that the plaintiffs are entitled to a declaration that the legislation impugned is invalid and to return of the money so paid, viz., Rs.
Fact	4,35,290-5-0 - money had and received - together with interest thereon at four per cent.
RulingByLowerCourt	per annum from the date of the notice of claim, viz., December 21, 1942, until payment thereof.
RulingByLowerCourt	<NAME>, J.
Fact	- <ORG>, hereafter called the company, is a non-resident company.
Fact	It is the principal shareholder in two companies, for brevitys sake called <ORG> and in seven other companies, for brevitys sake called <ORG>.
Fact	We are not concerned in this suit with the assessment of the company to income-tax in respect of the dividends it had received from <ORG>.
Fact	The suit concerns only wi th the income-tax assessed on the dividend it received from the sterling companies.
Fact	The sterling companies are incorporated in England.
Fact	Their principal place of business is in England where the share registers are kept.
Fact	They carry on business operations in British India and other places.
Fact	Dividends are declared in England.
Fact	The dividends on which the plaintiffs company has been assessed to income-tax here had been declared in England, paid to it in England, and no part of it had been brought into British India.
Fact	It was assessed to income-tax by the Income-tax Officer, <ORG>, Calcutta, on the basis of Explanation 3 to Section 4 of the Indian Income-tax Act, XI of 1922 (hereafter called the Act), on the December 23, 1940, for the financial year 1939-40.
Fact	It preferred an appeal on the June 6, 1941, to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner under Section 30 of the Act, but did not proceed with the appeal which was dismissed for default on the January 17, 1942.
Fact	The Income-tax Officer served a demand notice on  the company requiring payment of the tax by the March 15, 1941.
Fact	The company on getting the same cabled to the Income-tax Officer from England on the February 28, 1941, before filing the appeal, for postponement of the payment of the tax till the disposal of the proposed appeal and requested the latter not to treat it in default while the appeal would be pending.
Fact	The cable was received by the Income-tax Officer on the March 4, 1941, who sent a reply by cable on the same date expressing regret, and at the same time asked the company to arrange for payment by the March 15, 1941.
Fact	The money was paid by that date.
Fact	This suit was filed by the company on the Original Side of this Court in April, 1942.
Fact	On the pleadings the following five issues have been raised :  1.
Fact	Has the company any cause of action ?
Fact	2.
Fact	Is the suit barred by reason of the provision of the Indian Income-tax Act ?
Argument	3.
Fact	Has this Court, in the exercise of its original jurisdiction power to entertain the suit in view of Section 226 of the Government o f India Act, 1935 ?
Fact	4.
Fact	Is Explanation (3) to Section 4 of the Income-tax Act ultra vires and legislature ?
RatioOfTheDecision	and  5.
RatioOfTheDecision	What relief, if any, is to be given to the company ?
RatioOfTheDecision	I would take up the fourth issue first.
RatioOfTheDecision	The charging provisions ( Sections 3 and 4 ) of the Income-tax Act before its amendment by Act VII of 1939 were as follows :-  A person whether residing in or outside British India in the relevant year, was chargeable only in respect of the income (a) which had arisen or accrued to him in the accounting year in British India or (b) which had been received by him in British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the case of a resident only income which had arisen or accrued outside British India was to be deemed, subject to some limitations, to have arisen or accrued to him if it was either received or brought into British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	A non-resident could not have been assessed to tax on income which had arisen or accrued outside British India or income received outside British India even though it may have subsequently been brought int o British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	The sentence "arises or accrued or received" etc., occurring in sub-section (1) of <ORG> 4 was construed dis junctively.
RatioOfTheDecision	By the amending Act of 1939 <ORG> 4 was in the first place re-arranged.
RatioOfTheDecision	Effect was given to the decisions under the old Act to the effect that two separate ideas had been expressed in sub-section (1) of <ORG> 4 , the phrase "arise or accrue" connoting one idea and the word "received" another distinct idea.
RatioOfTheDecision	The liability to be taxed on income received or deemed to have been received in British India was put under a separate clause (clause (a)) which means that the liability on the ground of receipt in British India would be on a person, be he a resident or non-resident .
RatioOfTheDecision	We are not concerned with that case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> then places the assessee under two categories : (1) when he is a resident in British India and (2) when he is not : (clauses (b) & (c)).
RatioOfTheDecision	With regard to residents the general provision is that he is to be assessed on income which had not only arisen or ac crued in British India or was deemed to have arisen or accrued in British India but also on income which had arisen or accrued outside British India.
Statute	With regard to non-residents, however, they can be assessed on income which had arisen or accrued in British India or which is deemed to have arisen or accrued in British India.
Statute	Explanation (3) to Section 4 which concerns dividends only includes the case where the dividend which did not in fact accrue to a person in British India is deemed to have accrued to him in British India, if it was paid out of profits (and to the extent thereof) of the company in which the dividend producing shares were held if those profits had been subject to income-tax in British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether Explanation (3) is a good piece of legislation in reference to a person who is a resident in British India we are not called upon to decide, for in the case before us the plaintiff is a non-resident company.
RatioOfTheDecision	Income which in fact had arisen or occurred to a non-resident outside British India is  brought within the British Indian assessment by this Explanation, for dividend which accrues to a share-holder of a company is income which is quite distinct from the income of the company in which the shares are held, even when the whole of the share capital of the company is held by that share-holder.
RatioOfTheDecision	This follows from the observations of <ORG>, in <ORG> v. <ORG> and of Lord <ORG> in <NAME> v. <ORG> The property of a person who may be the subject of another independent foreign State and may be a resident of such a State, and over whom <ORG> has no jurisdiction is thus brought under the provision of a taxing statute enacted by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Limiting Explanation (3) to the case of a non-resident, that explanation is a piece of extra-territorial legislation, not by a supreme or paramount legislature but by a subordinate legislature, which derives its authority from <ORG> under <ORG> Ac t, 1935.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question is whether the explanation so far as it affects non-residents is ultra vires <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The powers of <ORG> during the transitional period are defined in Sections 99 and 100 of the Government of India Act, 1935.
Statute	Item No.
Statute	54 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to that Act is "tax on income other that agricultural income."
Statute	The subject accordingly falls within the field of legislation by <ORG>.
Statute	Under the Government of India Act, 1915, the jurisdiction of <ORG> to legislate was defined specifically.
Statute	Subject to some exceptions not material for this case, it had power to legislate for all persons and things within British India ( Section 65 clause (a)).
Statute	The Government of India Act, 1935, contains no provision exactly similar to Section 65(a) .
Statute	Section 99(1) read with Section 100 of the Act of 1935 authorizes <ORG> (<ORG>, during the transitional period : Section 316 ) to legislate for the whole or any  part of British India in respect of the subjects specified in Lists I and III of the Seventh Schedule.
Statute	Sub-section (2) of Section 99 expressly gives it power to legislate extra-territorially over some classes of persons.
Statute	In respect of item No.
RatioOfTheDecision	23, and it may be, No.
RatioOfTheDecision	21 of List I, also the same power exists.
RatioOfTheDecision	That being the position we are to see whether in respect of income-tax <ORG> has power to legislate extra-territorially.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my judgment that question must be answered on general principles keeping at the same time in view the provisions of Section 99 .
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG>, being a sovereign legislature, is not subject to any restraint so far as concerns municipal laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	It power and jurisdiction is so transcendent and absolute that it cannot be confined either for causes or persons within any bounds.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to International Law, however, it is not competent to <ORG> to enact laws for foreigners out of the British Dominions and beyond jurisdiction or for vessels on  the high seas or foreigners beyond the Empire.
RatioOfTheDecision	But if such a statute is passed, the domestic courts - <ORG>, of the Dominions and of the Empire -are bound to obey and administer them, it being left to the Government to justify its action with other countries diplomatically.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a foreign question altogether how for the domestic courts would be able to enforce their decrees or how far those decrees may be recognised by courts of foreign countries.
RatioOfTheDecision	A subordinate legislature is, no doubt, not an agent or delegate of the supreme legislature in respect of legislation on the permitted subject but has plenary powers : <NAME> v. <NAME>, <NAME> v. The Queen.
RatioOfTheDecision	That does not necessarily imply that it can legislate on the permitted subject in an extra-territorial manner in the same way as the supreme legislature.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the judgment of Lord <NAME> in <NAME> v. <NAME> be considered in its entirety it cannot be said that his Lordship was laying down by the observations at page 163 of the report, that ev ery subordinate legislature can legislate with extra-territorial effect on the permitted subject just as <ORG>, for on the next page he observes that a statute violating International Law passed by <ORG> cannot be challenged as ultra vires in a domestic court but such a statute passed by a subordinate legislature can be challenged as ultra vires in a domestic court on the ground that <ORG> must not be taken to have granted the power to enact such a statute to a subordinate legislature.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the early part of judgment I have pointed out that Explanation (3) to Section 4 of the Indian Income-tax Act has the effect of drawing in income that may have accrued within the territories of another independent foreign State to a person who may be the subject of, and resident in, the territories of another independent foreign State.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my judgment the general principle is that a subordinate legislature can legislate only within its territorial limits (<NAME> v. <NAME> y-General for New South Wales) unless otherwise authorized by <ORG>, either expressly or by necessary implication.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such an authority has been expressly conferred on <ORG> in matters mentioned in sub-section (2) of Section 99 and in some of the items of List I, as for instance item No.
RatioOfTheDecision	23.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether a power to legislate extra-territorially has been conferred by <ORG> on a subordinate legislature by implication has to be determined on certain considerations.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before, however, examining what those considerations should be, I may point out that the principle of interpretation expressed by the maxim expression units exclusion alter us cannot be invoked to construe a constitutional enactment, the provisions of which by the very nature of the subject must to a certain degree be worded in elastic forms.
RatioOfTheDecision	I cannot therefore accept the argument advanced on behalf of the plaintiff company that <ORG> by specifying the subjects over which the Indian Legisl ature can legislate extra-territorially intended that over all other subjects it was not to have that power.
RatioOfTheDecision	In deciding the question whether the power to legislate extra-territorially has been conferred on a subordinate legislature by implication the following are the material considerations :-  (1) the legislative practice on that subject in the mother country, <NAME> v. <NAME>, (2) the legislative practice in the territory subject to the jurisdiction of the subordinate legislature at or before the Constitution Act under consideration, <CITATION_563571> also In re Central Provinces and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1938, and, (3) nature of the subject-matter of legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	In considering the nature of the subject-matter of legislation in reference to the question now before us the guiding principle is that "you can complement a given power but cannot supplement it."
RatioOfTheDecision	If legislation on the permitted subject would not be effective without a provision being enacted having extra-terr itorial operation a power to legislate extra-territorially will be implied; for instance where the permitted subject of legislation is defence of the territory subject to the jurisdiction of the subordinate legislature, a provision in a statute which deals with that subject would not be considered ultra vires, because the provision has extra-territorial effect, the principle being that <ORG> gave the subordinate legislature such a power by necessary implication.
RatioOfTheDecision	The absurdity of limiting the power to legislate within the territorial bounds in such a matter is well expressed by the phrase "Imagine the navy confined to the three mile limit."
RatioOfTheDecision	The cases where the validity of laws of exclusion and expulsion passed by the Colonial or Dominion Legislature were considered also fellow within this category : (see Attorney-General for Canada v. <NAME> and <NAME>).
Fact	The legislative practice in England in income-tax matters is summarised at pages 27 and 35 of Lord MacMillans Report (Income-tax Codificat ion Report of 1936).
Fact	According to the legislative practice in England a person who is a resident in the United Kingdom is charged upon the whole amount of his profits and gains whether they arose from property in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.
RatioOfTheDecision	The word "elsewhere" which ordinarily would include the rest of the earth outside the United Kingdom was by judicial decisions given a limited meaning.
RatioOfTheDecision	A person who is now a resident in the United Kingdom is charged only in respect of the profits derived from property situate within the United Kingdom.
Precedent	Lord <NAME> summarised the law on the subject as in force in England in <NAME> v. <NAME>, thus :  " The Income-tax Act s themselves impose a territorial limit; either that from which the taxable income is derived must be situate in the United Kingdom or the person whose income is to be taxed must be a resident there."
Precedent	In British India the first Income-tax Act was passed in 1860 (Act XXXII of 1860).
Statute	Only persons resident in India were charged on annual profits ari <NAME> from property whether situate in India or elsewhere and from trade, profession or employment whether the same was carried on in India or elsewhere.
Statute	Non-residents, however, were charged only on profits of property situate in India and on profits of trade, profession, and employment carried on in India.
Statute	Dividends and interests on money or securities were charged only if they were payable in India.
Statute	The duration of the Act was for five years.
Statute	The next Act, IX of 1868, was an Act which imposed tax on professions and trades carried on in India.
Statute	It did not impose a tax on income but a tax in the nature of licence fees.
Statute	The next two Acts (IX of 1869 and XVI of 1870) proceed on same lines.
Statute	Every office or employment of profit in British India and salaries, annuities and pensions paid in British India, the profits of shipping companies trading between British India and outside and profits of companies made in British India were taxed.
Statute	By the Act of 1871 (XII of 1871) other incomes were brought in the field of taxa tion, but only the income which had accrued in British India was to be taxed.
Statute	The next Act, II of 1886, made income which had arisen or accrued in British India or which had been received in British India or salaries paid to a British subject in the Native States by <ORG> or by a local authority could only be taxed.
Statute	The Act of 1918 (Act VII of 1918) charged all income which arose, accrued or was received in British India or which under the provisions of that Act was to be deemed to have arisen, accrued or to have been received in British India.
Statute	The only provision in that Act which defined what was to be deemed to have arisen etc., in British India was Section 33 which corresponds to Section 42 of the Act of 1922(XI of 1922).
Statute	The last mentioned Act, as it stood in 1935, and before the amendment of 1939, made the income of a resident taxable when the income had accrued, arisen or had been received in British India, or though arising out of British India, has been received or brought into Briti sh India within a certain time, but with regard to a non-resident he could be taxed only in respect of income which had accrued or arise in British India or which had been received there.
Statute	The extending Section was Section 42 .
Statute	The legislative practice in India up to 1935 was not to assess a non-resident who had no business connection in British India, to income-tax in respect of an income which had not arisen or accrued to him in British India or which had not been received by him in British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover the nature of the subject of legislation does not necessarily require any legislative provision of extra-territorial operation.
RatioOfTheDecision	I cannot therefore hold that the Indian legislature had been given by implication the power to legislate extra-territorially with regard to income-tax matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	Explanation (3) to Section 4 is accordingly ultra vires to the extent it relates to a non-resident who does not fulfill the conditions of Section 42 in respect of his income which did not in fact arise or accrue to him in B ritish India.
RatioOfTheDecision	I refrain from making any observations with regard to any other case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The two cases on which the learned Advocate-General has relied strongly are decisions of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are <ORG> v. <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first case concerned income-tax and the second succession duty.
Argument	I have not been able to secure the Australian Income-tax Act but from the summary of its provisions as made by <NAME>, J., as he then was, in London and <ORG> v. <ORG>, and from Section 20(2)(b) as quoted in the <ORG> case it appears that a company which carries on business in Australia is taxed by the Australian Statute on so much of its income which it does not distribute amongst its share-holders.
Argument	The Company is also taxed on what it distributes as dividend to its members who are not residents in Australia, the company bei ng given the right to deduct the tax from the dividend payable to non-resident share-holders.
Argument	There is therefore no attempt to tax directly an absentee shareholder in respect of income which did not accrue to him in Australia.
Argument	In the <ORG> case, where the question was whether the amount paid to a non-resident debenture-holder could be taxed by the Australian Statute, <NAME>, J., pointed out that the purpose of that statute was not dependent on the liability of the debenture-holders to pay income-tax to <ORG>, but its purpose was to impose only upon such companies which derived assessable income from Australia and on no others, an original or independent liability.
Argument	The liability to the <ORG> was imposed on the company.
Argument	No doubt the Australian legislature intended that the incidence of the tax should be ultimately on the absentee debenture-holder .
Argument	This was sought to be effected by giving the company the right to deduct and retain the amount of tax payable by it on the in terest payable to the absentee debenture-holder from the amount payable to them.
Argument	<NAME>, J., however stated in clear words that the company could not escape assessment simply because foreign courts may, by reason of the laws of that foreign country, refuse to recognize the right of deduction so given to the company by the Australian legislature.
RatioOfTheDecision	The majority of the Judges agreed with <NAME>, J.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this view as to the scope of the Australian Statute no question of its having extra-territorial effect arises.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Statute was certainly intra vires, as the Australian legislature legislated on a subject which was within the territorial limits of Australia.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, J., however, adopted the reasons which he had given in the earlier case, namely in <ORG> v. <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In support of his view that the State legislature had power to legislate extra-territorially he gave four reasons :  (i) that the Australian Commonwealth has full self-government and the Commonwealth Parliamen t has power to legislate extra-territorially, as such a power is an essential part of the conception of self-government;  (ii) that <NAME> v. <NAME> had laid down that <ORG> had the powers of a full Sovereign legislature, and the observations made therein would apply to <ORG>;  (iii) that the legislative powers of the States of the Australian Commonwealth regarding extent are the same as that of <ORG>; and  (iv) that the questioned legislation, even if it had extra-territorial effect, would be perfectly valid, if in some aspects and relations it bears upon the "peace, order and good government" of the Dominion or the constituting States, as the case may be, either generally or in respect to specific subjects -  In my judgment the rules laid down by <NAME>, J., in <ORG> v. <ORG> cannot be the true guide for deciding the question before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	India is not yet a self-governing unit of the Em pire.
RatioOfTheDecision	For all practical purposes it is still a dependency.
Argument	The Indian Constitution is materially different from Canadian and Australian Constitutions, and <NAME>, J., was confining his observations to the constitutions of those two countries, where matters of peace, order and good government were entirely the concern of the Dominion Commonwealth or the States.
Argument	Besides, his observations do to a certain extent go against the general principle laid down by Lord <NAME> in <NAME> case and is against the decision of <ORG>, in London and <ORG>.
Argument	Issue No.
Argument	1.
Argument	- The contention of the learned Advocate-General is that the income which has been assessed, e.g., the dividends from the sterling companies did in fact arise or accrue to the plaintiff company in British India.
Argument	If that be so, the plaintiff company would not be affected by Explanation (3) to Section 4 and so would not have the right to question its validity.
Argument	Moreover, the suit will have to be dismissed on the merits, if  his contention be accepted.
RatioOfTheDecision	For determining this point the material facts are as follows :-  (i) The sterling companies are incorporated in England;  (ii) The place of central control of those companies is in England;  Their principal place of business is in England.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is from there that their chief operations are controlled, managed and directed;  (iii) The shares of those companies have been issued in England, the share registers are kept in England, dividends are declared in England and paid in England;  (iv) Those companies carry on business in British India and earn profits here.
RatioOfTheDecision	They have been assessed to income-tax in British India on their profits earned in British India;  (v) <ORG> is a non-resident Company;  (vi) The dividends in question had been declared and paid to it in England.
RatioOfTheDecision	Leaving out the case where income is not received in British India income of a non-resident is assessable in British India only if the income had accrued or had arisen in British India or is d eemed to have arisen or accrued in British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Explanation (3) to Section 4 , which deals with dividend only, defines the circumstances under which a class of income actually arising or accruing outside British India is deemed to have arisen or to have accrued in British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 42 which is not relevant to the case before us, for the assessment is not as an agent of the plaintiff company, also mentions the case where income would be deemed to have arisen etc., in British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	For the purpose of this issue we have to leave out those two cases, namely Explanation (3) to Section 4 and Section 42 .
RatioOfTheDecision	We are to see, fiction apart, whether the income of the company derived from dividends paid by the sterling companies had in fact arisen or accrued in British India.
Precedent	The cases established the following proposition, namely :-  "the situs of the income is the situs of the fund from which the income is directly derived, that is to say, in the case before us, the situs of the shares held by the plaintiff compan y would determine the place where the income had arisen or accrued to it."
Precedent	Regarding the situs of the shares two views have been maintained namely :-  (a) the place of "residence" of the company in which the shares are held determining the situs of the shares : and  (b) the situs of the shares is where the share register of the company is kept.
Precedent	The main proposition is established by the cases of Commissioner of Income-tax, <ORG> v. <NAME>, and Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay v. <NAME>.
Precedent	This is also the effect of the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_16616> where the place of profit earning was taken to be the situs of the contracts which produced the proof to the assessee.
Precedent	Regarding situs of the shares the first view is what has been adopted in <NAME> v. <ORG> At page 753, <ORG> observed thus : "A share or a parcel of stock is an incorporeal thing, carrying the right to a share in the profits of a company;  and where the company is, there the share is also, and there is the source of any dividend paid upon it."
Argument	He held that <ORG> was resident in England in the three years in question (1914-1915 to 1916-1917), and the dividends received by <ORG> by reason of its share-holdings in <ORG> were income which had accrued to it in England and not from foreign possessions.
Argument	According to this view the place of residence of the sterling companies it the relevant year would be the determining factor.
RatioOfTheDecision	The cases on the subject of residence of companies lay down that the place of incorporation of the company is not a very important factor.
RatioOfTheDecision	The accepted view is that for purposes of income-tax a company must be taken to reside at the place from which its real business is carried on, that is to say, "where the central management and control abides"; <ORG> v. <NAME>, <ORG> v. <ORG> A company may no doubt have, like a natural person, more t han one place of residence, but in that case the central management and control must be divided and exercised from more places than one : <ORG> v. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The other view is that the situs of the shares for purposes of taxing statutes must be taken to be the place where the share register is kept, "for the evidence of title to shares is the share register".
RatioOfTheDecision	This is the view taken in <ORG> v. <ORG>, and <ORG> v. <ORG>  Whichever view be accepted the situs of the shares which the plaintiff company had in the sterling companies would not be in British India but in England.
RatioOfTheDecision	The income in the shape of dividends paid by the sterling companies to the plaintiff company therefore arose or accrued not in British India but in England.
RatioOfTheDecision	The case of the <CITATION_17843> is an authority directly on the point.
Argument	The plaintiff company has assessed to income-tax in British India in respect of those dividends on the basis of Explanation (3) to Section 4 of  the Indian Income-tax Act, which made, by a fiction so to say, the income from those dividends, which in realty had arisen and accrued outside British India, to be income which had arisen or accrued in British India.
Argument	The plaintiff company is accordingly entitled to challenge the legality of that explanation.
Argument	Issue No.
Argument	2.
Argument	- The second and third issues must be decided on the basis of the allegation that the assessments is ultra vires, a point on which I have already recorded my finding.
Argument	Two grounds have been urged in support of the contention that the provisions of the Income-tax Act bar the suit.
Argument	It is firstly urged that the only manner in which the plaintiff company could proceed to have relief was by following the machinery provided for in the Income-tax Act ; by first appealing to the Appellate Assistant Income-tax Commissioner under Section 30 , then, to <ORG> under Section 33 and then coming up to <ORG> by way of reference under Section 66 .
Argument	Secondly, it is contended that Sectio n 67 of the Income-tax Act expressly bars the suit.
Argument	The general principle has been formulated by <NAME>, J., in <ORG> v. <ORG>.
Argument	The third proposition that he laid down is that when a statute creates a new liability-aliability not existing at common law-and at the same time gives a special and particular remedy for enforcing it, the remedy provided for in the statute must be followed and the party is not entitled for in the statute must be followed and the party is not entitled to have recourse to an action in the civil court.
Argument	In <NAME> v. <ORG>, Sir <NAME>, <NAME> stated the third proposition of <NAME> J., in a different form.
Argument	He thus observed : "But where a special tribunal out of the ordinary course is appointed by an Act to determine questions as to rights which are the creation of that Act, then except so far as otherwise expressly provided or necessarily implied, that tribunals jurisdiction to determine those questions is exc lusive."
Argument	These principles have been applied by the other <ORG> and by <ORG> in Secretary of <ORG> for <CITATION_1682326> ., a case on which the learned Advocate-General has also relied.
Argument	In my judgment these principles can be invoked by the defendant for the purpose of defeation the suit before us, only if it can be shown that the point raised in the suit and on the basis of which the plaintiff seeks relief, could have been determined by the special tribunals set up by the Income-tax Act .
Argument	Section 30 of the Act create a tribunal to which the assessee dissatisfied with the assessment made by the Income-tax Officer is to go in the first instance.
Argument	What questions he can raise before that tribunal are indicated in the section itself.
Argument	He can object to the amount of his income as determined by the Income-tax Officer or to the amount of loss computed under Section 24 or the amount of the tax etc.
Argument	He can also deny his liability to be assessed under the Act.
Argument	That phrase  to my mind mean that he can only urge before that tribunal that the provisions as they stand in the Act do not make him liable, i.e., exempt his income or a part of his income from assessment.
Argument	He cannot urge there that though a provision of the Act makes his income or part thereof liable to be assessed, that provision is illegal, being ultra vires the Indian <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Appellate Assistant Commissioner would not be competent to entertain or decide that question.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the principle that the scope of an appeal cannot be enlarged but must be limited to points which were open for adjudication by the court or tribunal of first instance <ORG> functioning under the Act, to which an appeal is taken under Section 33 , would have no power to entertain the said question question and deal with it in its order.
RatioOfTheDecision	This court on a reference being made to it under section 66 cannot also deal with such a question, as the reference must be limited to points arising out of the order passed by <ORG> ibunal.
RatioOfTheDecision	In accordingly overrule the first ground of attack made by the defendant.
RatioOfTheDecision	The second ground urged by the learned Advocate-General that Section 67 of the Act bars the suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	To support their respective contentions the learned Advocate appearing for the parties have cited a large number of decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	One of the cases on which the learned Advocate-General has most strongly relied is <CITATION_262260> .
Precedent	In that case the plaintiff was assessed to income-tax by the Income-tax Officer on a finding that he was a resident of British India.
Precedent	In the suit he alleged that he was not a resident of British India of but Saigon.
Precedent	He prayed for a declaration that the assessment was illegal and for recovery of the money which he had paid on demand by the Income-tax Officer.
Precedent	Section 67 of the Income-tax Act was successfully pleaded and the suit was dismissed.
Precedent	In the course of his judgment <NAME>, J., observed that where a statute contains a specific provision limiting or excluding the jurisdiction of civil courts th e determination of the ambit of the civil courts jurisdiction must rest upon the language used in the private provision and cases decided on the provisions of statutes couched in different language would be of little assistance.
Precedent	I agree with thou observations to this extent that the language of the private provisions is of prime importance, but I do not agree to the further proposition (if that be its meaning that it would not be legitimate to refer to decisions given on other statutes even when the private provisions are of similar scope.
Precedent	I would not, however, burden my judgment thy reference to the decision in suits brought for declaration that rates imposed under the provisions of the Bengal Municipal Act had not been legally imposed.
Precedent	I would confine myself to decisions in suits relating to income-tax and to decisions in other suits where the private provisions in the statute are of similar scope.
Precedent	The first case is <NAME> v. Secretary of <ORG> for India in Council.
Precedent	In that case a person, whose pl ace of residence was outside British India, was assessed on profits, which also had accrued outside British India, under the Income-tax Act of 1886 (Act II of 1886).
Precedent	He brought a suit for a declaration that the assessment on him was illegal.
Precedent	Section 39 of the Act II of 1886 which is couched exactly in the same terms as the first part of Section 67 was pleaded as a bar to the suit.
Precedent	The plea was overruled on the ground that if the questioned assessment was ultra vires that Section did not stand in the way of the plaintiff.
Precedent	This case was cited in <NAME> case but was distinguished on two grounds : (1) that the Act of 1886 contained no provision corresponding to the second part of the Section 67 , and (2) the said Act did not provide the same safeguards, as in the act of 1922, by way of appeal and reference to <ORG> with a further right of appeal to <ORG>.
Precedent	In my judgment <NAME> case cannot be put aside on these grounds of distinction.
Precedent	The second part of the Section 67 dea ls with a different subject altogether.
Precedent	The Act of 1886 contained provisions for revision, firstly to the Collector, and then to the Commissioner of the <ORG>.
Precedent	There was no doubt no provision for a reference to <ORG> and for further appeal to <ORG>, but in my judgment the scope of a private provision like that contained in Section 39 of Act II of 1886 or in the first part of the Section 67 of the Act of 1922 would neither be enlarged or curtailed by reason of the number of appeals from the assessment order provided for by the statute.
Fact	The next case of importance is <CITATION_1009031> .
RatioOfTheDecision	The Income-tax Act under consideration was the Act of 1918.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 52 contained the private provision which is exactly in the same terms as Section 67 of the Act of 1922.
Statute	At page 17 of the report the learned judges made the following observations : "A civil suit is barred under recession 52 of the Income-tax Act of 1918.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the tax was lived under that Act, no doubt, a suit would be barred, but if the a ssessment was made in respect of an item of income which is not assessable under the Act civil suit would lie, inasmuch as the officer making the assessment had no jurisdiction to make it.
RatioOfTheDecision	In cases in which the Income-tax Officer has to decide whether a certain item of income is assessable or not, his decision cannot be said to be ultra vires even if it is illegal.
RatioOfTheDecision	But where a certain income is outside the scope of the Act, such as agricultural income or income not earned in or brought into British India, any assessment in respect of such income would be outside the scope of the Act, and a civil suit to recover it would not be barred by reason of Section 52 ."
RatioOfTheDecision	In my judgment the rule thus formulated is the correct rule, and further it is on the principle indicated in this passage, that <NAME> case and other cases cited by the learned Advocate-General, to which I will refer later on, are to be distinguished.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rule of that if the imposition is ultra vires, statutory provisions, which purport to t ake away the jurisdiction of civil courts would not be considered effective to bar a suit receives support from the decisions of <ORG> in <CITATION_1704752> , where in spite of the provisions of Section 6 of Act IX of 1847 it was held that a civil suit was maintainable to declare that the assessment of revenue made by the revenue authorities was illegal on the ground that on a contraction of the provisions of Act IX of 1847 the revenue authorities could not have legally imposed revenue on the land in question.
Precedent	The decision of <ORG> in <NAME> v. Secretary of State for India in Council, affirmed on appeal in (54 I.A.
Precedent	338), on a different ground also supports the same view.
Precedent	In that case a large body of shop-keepers of Malegaon filed a suit against the Secretary of State for India for a declaration that a certain notification issued by the District Magistrate, by which compensation for damage caused at a riot and the costs of additional police for keeping order were to  be recovered, was illegal and for injunction.
Precedent	A notice under Section 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure was given, but the suit was filed before the expiry of two months from the date of that notice.
Precedent	The Secretary of <ORG> raised three substantial questions : (1) that Section 4(f) on the Bombay Revenue Jurisdiction Act (Act X of 1876) barred the suit, (2) that the suit having been instituted before two months of the notice given under Section 80 of the Civil Procedure Code was premature, and (3) the challenged notification was a valid one.
Precedent	<ORG> gave effect to all the three contentions and dismissed the suit.
Precedent	On appeal the Judges of <ORG> were divided on the question as to whether notice under Section 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure was required, the suit being for injunction.
Precedent	Both of them held that the notification was perfectly valid, but that if the notification had been illegal the suit would not have bed barred under Section 4(f) of the Bombay Revenue Jurisdiction Act in respe ct of the tax relating to additional police charges.
Precedent	<NAME>, A.C.J., observed thus : "Apart from this ground it is clear that the provision (Section 4(f) of the Revenue Jurisdiction Act) cannot apply where the legality of the order of the <ORG> is questioned.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would apply to a case of rate which is authorised, that is, legally authorised, by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case the legal basis for the action of <ORG> is questioned and I think that the suit is not barred by this clause even as regards the tax relating to additional police charges, provided it is established that the rate is not legal.
Precedent	Thus the objection (about the maintainability of the suit) would apply to police charges, if it be proved that the rate is legally authorised."
Precedent	Section 4(f) of Act X of 1876 runs as follows : "Subject to the exceptions hereinafter appearing no civil court shall exercise jurisdiction as to any of the following matters :  * * *  (f) claim against the <ORG> to hold land wholly or partially free from payment s charged on or payable out of land revenue, or to set aside any less or rate authorized by the <ORG> under the provisions of any law for the time being in force,"  On appeal by the plaintiffs to <ORG> the suit was dismissed.
Precedent	<ORG> held that the notification so far as it related to the collection of compensation was perfectly valid, but it was not valid so far as it related to the collection of additional police charges.
Precedent	Lord <NAME> then went on to examine the position as to whether the suit so far as it related to additional police charges was maintainable or not.
Precedent	He held that it was not maintainable in view of the provisions of Section 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure but at the same time did not dissent from the observations made by <ORG> in respect of the scope of Section 4(f) of the Revenue Jurisdiction Act.
Precedent	The case on which the learned Advocate-Generally has relied are <ORG> v. Secretary of <ORG> for <CITATION_1876107> for India, Secretary of <ORG> f or <CITATION_1415348> and Secretary of <ORG> for India v. <NAME>.
Precedent	In none of those cases was the question of ultra vires raised.
Precedent	In all of them the assessment was not outside but under the Income-tax Act and the suits challenged the correctness of findings on points which the Income-tax Officer was competent to determine.
Precedent	In Secretary of <ORG> for <CITATION_1682326> .
Precedent	a case which concerned customs duties, the plaintiff contended that the goods which he had imported were of a different description from what the <ORG> authorities took them to be and so the proper duty payable was at a lower rate.
Precedent	That case is also of the same type as the first mentioned case.
Precedent	In the suit before us Section 67 is of no avail to the defence as the suit is not for setting aside or modifying an assessment made under that Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a suit for a declaration that the assessment is unauthorised by the Act and outside the Act as it ought to stand after Explanation (3) to Section 4 is struck out on the ground that it is ult ra vires the legislature.
RatioOfTheDecision	I would accordingly answer this issue in favour of the plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	Issue No.
RatioOfTheDecision	3.
RatioOfTheDecision	- For deciding the third issue the provisions of Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1935, have to be considered.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a section which still stands in the statute book in spite of the fact that the historical reasons for the enactment have long disappeared.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has the effect of taking away the original jurisdiction of this <ORG> in matters in respect of which courts subordinate to this court would have original jurisdiction.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is an anomaly that this <ORG> cannot exercise its functions in the exercise of its original jurisdiction in matters concerning revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	Be that as it may, we have to give effect to th at Section.
RatioOfTheDecision	The section is divided into two parts, The <ORG> has no original jurisdiction in (1) any matter concerning revenue or (2) in any matter concerning any act ordered on done in the collection of revenue.
Precedent	I do not agree with the interpretation put upon this section in <CITATION_9324>  for India to the effect that the two parts of the Section express two distinct and mutually exclusive ideas, namely, "the first part refers to preliminary proceedings taken for the purpose of determining the amount of revenue and the second part to the machinery to enforce the payment of revenue."
Precedent	The second part no doubt refers to the machinery for enforcing payment of revenue but I am not prepared to say that the first refers only to preliminary proceedings taken for the purpose of determining the amount of revenue.
Precedent	Such a view would conflict with the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1842303> .
Precedent	In that case Lord <NAME> laid down that <ORG> in the exercise of its original jurisdiction had power, in spite of Section 106 of the Government of India Act, 1915, to interfere by issuing a purgative writ at the stage when the preliminary proceedings were being taken for assessing the amount of income-tax.
Precedent	In my judgment the first part of the Section includes the matter dealt within the s econd part of the section.
Precedent	A matter concerning revenue would include a matter relating to the collection of revenue.
Precedent	In my opinion the second part of the cessation has been enacted to give an indemnity to revenue officers who in the discharge of their duties may have collected or may have made attempts to collect revenue by passing orders or by doing things which may not be strictly according to law but which they bona fide believed to be in accordance with law.
Precedent	The cases cited by the learned Advocate-General are cases which concerned the collection of what was in fact revenue or was found to be revenue.
Precedent	The first case is the case of <NAME> v. <NAME>.
Precedent	The act that was done there was an attempt to collect quit rent due to <ORG> by executing a distress warrant.
Precedent	It could not be justified in law, for the distress warrant issued against one person was executed against another and for a liability whip was not fully the liability of the latter.
Precedent	A suit for damages was brought against the <ORG>., age nt who had executed the said warrant.
Precedent	The main defence was that the suit was not maintainable in view of the provision is of sustain 9 of 37 Ego.
Precedent	III, c. 142, which was in the seams terms as Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1935.
Argument	In reversing the judgment of <ORG> <ORG> pointed out that the case cannot be decided on the plain language of the Section.
RatioOfTheDecision	For if the act done was strictly in accordance with law, the Section would be redundant, the Section was accordingly interpreted in the manner which I have indicated above.
RatioOfTheDecision	The cases of Messrs. <CITATION_1775700> v. Secretary of <ORG> for <CITATION_355457> for <CITATION_9324> for <CITATION_249252> and <NAME> v. Secretary of <ORG> for India are cases which fall within the second part of Section 226 .
RatioOfTheDecision	In all the cases except the last the act ordered or done by the revenue authorities related to collection of what was admittedly and beyond question revenue and in the last mentioned cases as als o in <NAME> case, what was ordered to be collected was found to be revenue by the <ORG> after adjudication.
RatioOfTheDecision	In all those cases the construction given to the second part of the Section in <NAME> v. <NAME> was reiterated.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> case and <NAME> case, are of importance for the purpose of showing that where there is a dispute as to whether a particular levy is revenue or not, that dispute must be adjudicated upon by the court and only if the court finds that it is revenue, then and then only can the bar of Section 226 be invoked and applied.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my judgment that is the correct approach, as it accords with fundamental principles.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first proposition that is well established is that the condition on which the right of a court of limited jurisdiction to exercise jurisdiction depends must be fulfilled, those conditions may be of various kinds.
RatioOfTheDecision	They may be founded either upon the character of constitution of the tribunal, or upon the nature of the subject-matter of enquiry, or upon certain proceedings wh ich have been made essential preliminaries to the enquiry, or upon the existence of some facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	If there is any dispute as to those facts that <ORG> is not only entitled to adjudicate upon them but must do so.
RatioOfTheDecision	Only its decision on the point would be open for re-examination by a superior four or tribunal : <ORG> v. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It follows as a converse proposition that where a court has a general jurisdiction.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is to say, jurisdiction to entertain suits for proceedings of a civil nature, and its jurisdiction over a particular subject-matter, which would otherwise be within its competence, is excluded by a statute, and there is a dispute as to facts, which if established, would oust its jurisdiction, that <ORG> would have not only the power but would be under a duty to give its decision on the said dispute.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unless the private statute plainly prohibits it from adjudicating upon toes disputed facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the light of these principles this court has the power to determine whether the subject matte r of this suit concerns revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it does, the suit would be barred, otherwise not.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my judgment on the plaintiff company is or can be called revenue in the popular sense or the defendant gives it that designation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Revenue is that which the <ORG> collects from the subject or from the possessions of the <ORG> for the purpose of carrying gout its administrative and governmental duties.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the first mentioned case it involves the right to levy form the subjects.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the right does not exist in respect of a particular matter, what is assessed or collected would not in my judgment be considered AAC revenue within the meaning of Section 226 , although the name of a tax may be given to it.
RatioOfTheDecision	Without a valid act on the part of the <ORG>, what is callef or designated by its as revenue cannot be revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this view of the matter I agree with the concession that was made by the Advocate-General.
Argument	Bombay, in <CITATION_563571> , that Section 226 of the Government of India Act contemplates a "valid revenue," and with the  observation of <NAME>.
Argument	C., that "before the Section (226) can apply, however, we must determine that the tax which is challenged is legal if it is not.
Argument	Its imposition does not concern revenue."
Argument	I accordingly hold that Section 226 is not a bar, the questioned tax imposed on the plaintiff company being illegal, as Explanation (3) to Section 4 is ultra vires <ORG>.
Argument	Issue No.
Argument	5.
Argument	- On the conclusions to which I have arrived at the company is entitled to the relief as prayed for in prayer (b) of the plaint.
Argument	The company is also entitled to get a refund of Rs.
Argument	4,35,290-5-0 which was paid by it.
Argument	I have already held that Explanation (3) to Section 4 being ultra vires the Indian Legislature, that sum cannot be called revenue, and consequently the second part of Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1935, places no bar.
Argument	Even before the Income-tax Officer the company had taken up the position that it was not liable to be taxed in British India on dividends paid by the sterling companies.
Argument	On a dem and notice being served requiring payment of the amount by the March 15, 1941, it pleaded for time by <NAME> the answer was that time could not be extended and that if the payment was not made by the March 15, 1941, the company would be treated as in default, which implied that a penalty, which may be equal to the amount of the assessed tax, may be imposed.
RulingByLowerCourt	On these facts I hold that not only the payment was made under protest, but it was made under circumstances which would entitle the company to receiver it on the basis of Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act as interpreted by <ORG> in <CITATION_1197810> company would also be entitled to recover interest on the said amount from the date of demand (December 22, 1941) till recovery.
RulingByLowerCourt	I agree with my Lord Chief Justice that the rate should be 4 per cent.
RulingByLowerCourt	simple.
RulingByLowerCourt	I do not see my way to grant prayer (c).
RulingByLowerCourt	There is no likelihood that the Income-tax Officer would make any attempt in future to assess the company on dividends  form <ORG>, if our judgment to the effect that the assessment is illegal, be upheld on appeal.
Precedent	<NAME>.
Precedent	J.
Precedent	- I am in entire agreement with the opinion expressed by <NAME>, J., on issues Nos.
Precedent	2 and 4 as framed by him and with the reasons given, and I have nothing to add to his judgment so far as these issues are concerned.
Precedent	In placing his argument on issue No.
Argument	1, Sir<NAME> enunciated the following propositions :-  The plaintiff <ORG> held shares in the sterling companies, i.e., invested money in the sterling companies.
Argument	In order to obtain an income, the sterling companies had to do business-the shares would not of themselves earn any income.
Argument	Therefore the income came through the business operations of the sterling companies carried on in India.
Argument	The profits of the sterling companies became the subject matter of taxation in British India and were taxed and thereby impressed, as it were, with a label that they were something which had arisen or accrued in British India.
Argument	The dividends were pai d out of those profits.
Argument	It is normally to be expected that dividends will be declared when profits are made; the profits of the sterling companies constituted the income of the shareholders, though at that stage inchoate.
Argument	The resolutions of <ORG> declaring dividends did not produce the income; they merely released it.
RatioOfTheDecision	This release was merely the last stage in the process of accrual.
RatioOfTheDecision	This agreement implies that the income of the <ORG> is in fact the income of the share-holders and that the company is merely the channel through which that income is received.
RatioOfTheDecision	It also implies that money received by way of profits in India retains its indentity (as though it were a manufactured product stamped "Made in India") as it subsequently passes from hand to hand.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG>, has shown in his judgment that there is the highest judicial authority for the view that the income of the share-holders is quite distinct from the income of the <ORG>, even when the whole of the share capital is held by one sha re-holder.
RatioOfTheDecision	It seems to me that the provisions of the Indian Income-tax Act itself lead to the same conclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the provisions of that Act a company pays income-tax and super-tax on its profits.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thereafter the share-holder who receives a dividend is assessed to income-tax and super-tax on that dividend.
RatioOfTheDecision	The shareholder is required however to payh income-tax not on the amount of the dividend actually received, but on that amount increased by a proportionate share of the income-tax paid by the company.
RatioOfTheDecision	He is then credited with having paid that proportionate share.
RatioOfTheDecision	As Income-tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	When it comes to super-tax however, no credit is given to the share-holder for the super-tax already paid and he is again required to pay super-tax on the dividend so increased.
RatioOfTheDecision	It follows that either the Shri-holder is assessed twice to super-tax on the same income or the income of the share-holder is, for the purposes of the Indian Income-tax Act , regarded as distinct and separate from the income of the company.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the Indian In come-tax Act does not authorise the assesment of a person twice to super-tax on the same income the second of the above views must be correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	The second argument that the money received as profits retains its indentity when passed on, is in my opinion equally fallacious.
RatioOfTheDecision	If this argument were sound it would follow that the income of employees of the sterling companies, received in the form of salaries in London for work done in London, would have a source or origin in India, and would have to be regarded as accruing or arising in India-a view which seems to me untenable.
RatioOfTheDecision	For these reasons, and for the reasons given by <NAME>, J., in his judgment, I agree that issue No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1 must be answered in the affirmative.
RatioOfTheDecision	Issue No.
RatioOfTheDecision	3.
RatioOfTheDecision	- I am unable to accept the view that Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1935, is not a bar to our exercising jurisdiction in the matters now before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	That section is a relic of an old quarrel and is founded on consideration is essentially different from those on which provision  such as those in Section 67 of the Income-tax Act are based.
RatioOfTheDecision	The jurisdiction of <ORG> is excluded by Section 67 of the Income-tax Act and by similar Section in other statutes because under those statutes other tribunals have been established to give the necessary relief to aggrieved parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	But Section 226 of the Government of India Act operates whether the aggrieved person has or has not a remedy under the particular Act, indeed, the very wording of the Section indicates that there may be instances when an aggrieved person will have a remedy in Civil Courts if the cause of action arises outside the territorial limits of the original jurisdiction of <ORG> but will have no such remedy if the case of action arises within those limits.
RatioOfTheDecision	For these reasons it seems to me that no assistance to the undertaking of the provisions of this Section can be obtained for the reasoning given in decisions as to the applicability of such provisions as Section 67 of the Income-tax Act.
Statute	Section 226(1) of t he Government of India Act, 1935, reads as follows :-  "Until otherwise provided by the act of the appropriate legislator, <ORG> shall have any original jurisdiction in any matter concerning the revenue, or concerning any Act ordered or done in the collection thereof according to the usage and practice of the country or the law for the time being in force."
Argument	The plaintiffs contend that if any provision of the Income-tax Act is ultra vires of the Indian Legislature the giving of a decision thats ultra vires is not the exercise of original jurisdiction in any matter concerning the revenue.
Argument	Nor does it concern any act ordered or done in the collection there of according to the law for the time being in force.
Argument	<NAME>, J., in his judgment has pointed out that none of the rulings in whip Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1935, was held to be a bar, is of any assistance to us, inasmuch as in each of those cases the court was concerned with "an act ordered or done in the collection of the revenue a ccording with" an arc ordered or done in the collection of the revenue accordion got the usage and practice of the country or the law for the time being in force.
RatioOfTheDecision	; and there was no question whether the provisions of the Act were ultra vires of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	I have no difficulty in accepting the argument that where a proviso of the statute is found to be ultra vires of the legislature, an act ordered or done under the provisions is not an act ordered or done according to the law for the time being in force, and therefore the original jurisdiction of <ORG> to determine whether a provisions is ultra vires or not, is not excluded by the second part of Section 226(1) of the Government of India Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The problem is whether that jurisdiction is excluded by the first part of the Section, viz., "<ORG> shall have any original jurisdiction in any matter concerning the revenue."
RatioOfTheDecision	The cases cited, in which this portion of the Section has been considered are three in number.
Precedent	In Block.
Precedent	<CITATION_1 842303> , the question in issue was whether <ORG> had power to make an order requiring <ORG> to perform his statutory duty of stating a case and referring it to <ORG> under Section 51 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1918.
Precedent	<ORG> observed : "In their Lordships view the order of <ORG> to a revenue officer to do his statutory duty would not be the exercise of "original jurisdiction in any matter concerning the revenue", and the latter part of the clause need not be considered, for the proceedings in this case had not to do with the collection of the revenue, but with the preliminary assessment to ascertain what that revenue was."
Precedent	This decision emphasizes the distinction between two parts of Section 226 (1) of the Govt., of India Act , 1936, and suggests that if the statutory duty in question has to do with the collect of the revenue, and not merely with the preliminary assessment, the power of <ORG> to issue a direction to a revenue officer  to perform that duty may possibly be excluded by this Section.
Precedent	But so far as the first part of the Section is concerned, this decision does not suggest that any special or limited interpretation is to be placed on the words any original jurisdiction in any matter concerning the revenue : the decision merely lays down that the issue of an order to a revenue officer to perform his statutory duty of stating a case is not exercise of original jurisdiction in a matter concerning the revenue.
Precedent	<CITATION_195197> 11(Central), it was held that an order directing a revenue officer to forbear from doing something which he believes wrongly to be his statutory duty, cannot fall within Section 226(1) of the Government of India Act.
Precedent	This decision purports to follow <CITATION_1842303> (1923) L.R.
Precedent	50 I.A.
Precedent	227, and for our present purposes.
Precedent	Does not go further than the earlier authority.
Precedent	<CITATION_563571> 3(1940) I.L.R.
Precedent	1940 Bom.
Precedent	58; 7 I.T.R.
Precedent	670; 3 F.L.J.H.C.
Precedent	23 is the only decision which seems to me to have a direct beari ng on the question before us.
Precedent	In that case the question before the court was whether Part VI of the Bombay Finance Act, 1932, as amended in 1939 was ultra vires of the local legislature.
Precedent	Sir <NAME> for the plaintiff argued (page 62) "Section 226 of the Govt.
RatioOfTheDecision	of India Act, 1935, should be strictly construed.
RatioOfTheDecision	It only takes away the original jurisdiction of <ORG> in any matter concerning the revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before the Section could operate there must exist a valid Act and without a valid Act there can be no revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	The jurisdiction to determine the validity of the Act is not taken away by Section 226 ."
RatioOfTheDecision	The Advocate-General in reply conceded (page 66) the point.
Argument	He argued that Section 226 contemplates the existence of valid revenue and stated the the was unaware of a case where the jurisdiction of the <ORG> was barred when the validity of the Act imposing the revenue was in question.
Argument	In delivering judgment Beaumont, C.J, observed : "Before the Section can apply, however, we must determine that the t ax which is challenged is legal; if it is not, its imposition does not concern revenue, but it is a nullity.
Argument	To refuse jurisdiction to try this question would involve dismissing the case against the plaintiff without hearing him, this point was not seriously contested by the Advocate-General."
RatioOfTheDecision	It is clear form the above fact that the point was not seriously contested.
RatioOfTheDecision	For myself, with great respect to the learned Judges, I am not satisfied that that decision was correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is the position in the present case ?
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> in an attempt to increase the revenue considers whether it has a right, to tax certain incomes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Believing in good faith that it has the right it obtains the necessary statutory authority from <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Income-tax authorities aces the incomes in question, demand payment of the tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	Realism the same and appropriate the money to the revenue of the country.
Fact	The questions in issue are-Has <ORG> the power to tax these incomes ?
Fact	Can the Indian reven ue be increased in this manner ?
RatioOfTheDecision	Is the amount realised from the plaintiff, which has been claimed as revenue, realised as revenue, and treated as revenue, to continue to be so treated or is it to be deducted from the funds claimed by the <ORG> as its revenue and refunded to the plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	It seems to me that if the ordinary meaning is to attic to the words "any matter concerning the revenue" then all these questions are matters occurring the revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, a decision that something is not valid revenue concerns the revenue as much as a decision that it is valid revenue.
Precedent	The argument that Section 26 is a bar only to the exercise of jurisdiction in matters concerning valid revenue seems to me to conflict with the principle laid down in <NAME> v. <NAME> 1(1845-51) 4 M.I.A.
Precedent	33.
RatioOfTheDecision	The same argument would apply to cases where the revenue officer misunderstood the valid provisions of the Act and assessed to tax incomes not assessable under the Act-because the amount realised would not be valid reven ue.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly if the revenue officer by mere mistake in arithmetic demanded and realised from an assessee more than was legally payable, the illegal excess would not be valid revenue, and according to this argument, the jurisdiction of <ORG> to grant relief in respect thereof would not be barred.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the jurisdiction of <ORG> would be barred under Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1935, only in those cases where the plaintiff on the merits was not entitled to succeed.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my opinion neither the plain words of the Section nor the decision of <ORG> in <ORG>, justify such an interpretation.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am of opinion that Section 226 of the Government of India Act, 1935, is a bar to our entertaining the preson suit, and that the plaint should therefore be returned to the plaintiff for presentation to the proper court.
RulingByPresentCourt	It only remains for me to add that if I were not convinced that the Section 226 of the Government of India Act, was a b ar to the exercise of jurisdiction by us in this matter, I should agree with the order propped by my Lord the Chief Justice.
RulingByPresentCourt	Order accordingly.
