Fact	ORDER <NAME>, Member (T)  1.
Fact	This appeal is directed against the order dated 31-5-1988 passed by the Additional Collector of <ORG>, Mangalore by which he had ordered assessment of the second hand stone edge cutting machine imported by the appellants herein for purposes of assessment of <ORG> duty at enhanced value under Section 14(1)(b) of the <ORG> Act, 1962 and also further held that the import against the licence produced was unauthorised, ordering confiscation of the goods imported under Section 111(d) and 111(m) of the <ORG> Act, 1962 levying a fine in lieu of confiscation of Rs.
Fact	1,00,000/-.
Fact	A penalty of Rs.
Fact	25,000/- was also imposed on the appellants under Section 112 of the <ORG> Act, 1962.
Fact	The facts in brief are that the appellants imported in September, 1987, one unit second hand stone edge cutting machine for which they declared CIF value of Rs.
Fact	35,000/- and also produced a <ORG> Clearance Permit over the same amount.
Fact	They also made a further declaration that the machine had  been supplied to them from Japan for use by the appellants and the granite stones after edge cutting and sculpturing were to be exported to Japan to the very same suppliers of the second hand machine to the appellants.
Fact	The appellants were doing the job work for the foreign suppliers of the machine.
Fact	The department, however, found on enquiry with regard to the valuation of similar machines from Japan that the price for similar goods were for Japan 9,108,000/-.
Fact	The department also considered that the transaction for the import of the machine by the appellants was not at arm's length and held the suppliers of the appellants to be related persons.
Fact	The department thereafter added the value of certain accessories giving depreciation @ 4% per quarter for the first year, 3% per quarter for the second year, 2.5% per quarter for the third year and 2% per quarter for subsequent years.
Fact	The price of the machine imported was determined in this manner by the department as Rs.
Fact	4,07,873/- but they found that the appellants had  declared only Rs.
Fact	35,165/- in the Bill of Entry.
Argument	Therefore, there was a differential value of Rs.
Argument	3,72,873/- indicating undervaluation.
Argument	Proceedings were instituted for such under-valuation and mis-declaration against the appellants which resulted in the impugned order of the Additional Collector, against which the present appeal has been filed.
Argument	2.
Argument	<NAME>, the learned counsel appeared for the appellants alongwith <NAME>, the learned counsel.
Argument	He submitted that the department has gone wrong in comparing the second hand edge cutting machine imported by them with a circular saw machine with sophisticated electric control system produced by a different manufacturer of Japan.
Argument	He also questioned the mode of allowing depreciation.
Argument	He further pointed out that no expert opinion of any technician has been obtained to say that the machines whose values have been by the department have, in fact, comparable.
Argument	He further submitted that the appellants have furnished evidence of the first sale of the  machine by the original manufacturer to a stone factory in Japan and also documentary evidence of the purchase of this second hand machine by the present suppliers, namely, <ORG>, Japan.
Argument	They had further furnished <ORG> certificate certifying the re-conditioning of the machine and giving its CIF value if imported new.
Argument	The learned counsel further contended that the department had ignored the evidence of the amount of freight paid in the Bill of Lading while determining the assessable value.
Argument	In fact, this amount has been recognised in the Show Cause Notice and yet the impugned order adopts a total different amount, which is illegal.
Argument	The learned counsel further submitted that the suppliers of the machine were a famous temple authorities in Japan and there were no <NAME> fides in the import of the machine by the appellants because the temple authorities have made it abundantly clear that they are supplying the machine for purposes of expediting the work of supplying and exporting to  Japan the carved and sculptural granite articles for installation at the temple.
Argument	3.
Argument	<NAME>, the learned <ORG> appearing for the department contended that at the time of original assessment, the invoice was not made available and even accepting that it was genuine, there is nothing to definitely link the particulars found in the invoice with the machine importer.
Argument	The Chartered Engineer Certificate also, while giving the condition of the machine, does not reveal any ground as to how he could certify the value of a new machine.
Argument	It was also an admitted fact that the machine was being supplied to the appellants by the Japan supplier on special consideration and hence, the lower value declared for the machine was deliberate.
Argument	The learned <ORG> also contended that the comparison of the value was rightly made with machines having similar functional design and was, therefore, valid.
Argument	In reply, the learned counsel pointed out that the genuineness of the invoice was never questioned by the department.
Argument	The learned  counsel further referred to the affidavit of the Priest of the temple and submitted further that all particulars have been disclosed by them to the licensing authorities while obtaining the Customs Clearance Permit.
Argument	4.
Fact	We have carefully considered the submissions made by both the sides.
Fact	The machine imported in this case is admittedly second hand reconditioned one.
Fact	The appellants produced the invoice for it in which it had been described as 1979 Model second hand stone edge cutting machine with 10" Diamond saw, one 10 H.P.
Fact	motor, and two 1 H.P.
Fact	motors, main spindle, pushing car with moving table, rail with base, speed charging equipment with accessories with repairing equipment and tools and the CIF value as Rs.
Fact	35,000/-.
Argument	The appellants claim is that the machine is a gift from TSUBOSAKA DERA Temple, Japan to them and that the temple had gifted it in order to facilitate expeditious execution of the work of supply of carved and sculptural granite articles to the temple by the appellants and that it is that valu e that they had furnished to the import licensing authorities who had granted them the Customs Clearance Permit accordingly for the same value.
Argument	They further urge that the relationship between the appellants and the donor was also indicated as of manufacturer and exporter and buyer of the appellant's goods as also the object of the donation of the machine.
Argument	Hence they want the invoice value to be accepted for assessment of duty Section 14(1) of the Customs Act, 1962 also as there is no doubt about the genuineness of the transaction.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, we find that the genuineness of the transaction by itself is not sufficient for acceptance of the invoice value for purposes of Section 14 of the Customs Act, 1962 as the value under the section is a deemed value being the price at which such or like goods are ordinarily sold or offered for sale for delivery at the time and place of importation.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is with reference to the criteria in the Section as above that assessable value has to be determined.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence the submission in t his regard is unacceptable.
RatioOfTheDecision	The department has, on the other hand, sought to determine the value of the machine on the basis of Section 14(1)(b) as they found provisions of 14(1)(a) inapplicable to Customs Valuation Rules, 1963 under Rule 8 (latest judgement) and had taken the value of a grinding and circular saw machine Type GCR from Japan when imported as new and with due adjustment towards depreciation.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have to examine the question whether this machine is comparable with the one imported by the appellants, for it is seen that even for determination of value under Rule 3 of Valuation Rules, it is necessary to eliminate any arbitrariness.
RatioOfTheDecision	We find that the machine imported is described as stone edge cutting machine whereas the machine considered by the department is a grinding and circular saw machine which seems to be a combination machine and in the supplier's quotation for it available on record, it is supplied with 16" gear type grinding wheel for granite as well as 12" diamond blade for vertical; the  diamond blade capacity of the imported machine is less at 10" and there is no indication that it is fitted with grinding wheel also.
RatioOfTheDecision	The two machines are not from the same manufacturer.
RatioOfTheDecision	And the fact also remains that the machine imported is of 1979 vintage whereas the machine considered by the department for comparison is more modern and sophisticated.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence, we are of the view that the machines are not comparable even though both may have central control panel as stated in the order-inoriginal.
Fact	On the other hand, it is seen that there are on record copies of invoice dated 25-9-1979 from <ORG>, Japan issued to <ORG> selling one set of edge cutting machine for Japan Yen 25,00,000/-; copy of the certificate for manufacture and price confirming the above sale issued by the manufacturer <ORG>; copy of the invoice dated April 1985 from <ORG> to <ORG> showing resale at Japan Yen 500,000/- along with receipt for the amount dated 15-4-1985; copy  of a certificate dated 10-11-1985 given by a Japanese Government approved Chartered Engineer which certifies that the machine manufactured in 1979 had been reconditioned at a cost of U.S. $ 300, has a residual life of 10 years and would be worth Rs.
Fact	1 lakh CIF in India if purchased new.
Fact	There is also on record an affidavit by <NAME> of the donor <ORG> sworn on 10-11-1985 in Japan to the effect that the cost of the machine is U.S. $ 3180 in Japan.
Fact	There is nothing on record questioning the authenticity of these documents.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, we find that in respect of the value of the machine besides the value declared in the Bill of Entry, there are two other indications of value produced by the appellants themselves, namely, the value as certified by <NAME>, and also the value as sworn by <NAME> of the temple in this affidavit.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a situation we observe the case of the appellants is parallel to the case decided by this <ORG> reported in 1988 (35) E.L.T.
RatioOfTheDecision	386 (<ORG>) in the case of <CITATION_1001045> .
Fact	In that case valuation of imported second hand computer against a Customs Clearance Permit was in dispute where the adjudicating authority had enhanced the declared value.
Fact	The appellant therein had purchased in 1985 second hand computer of 1979 manufacture and after hot staging and testing it <ORG> certified the residual life as 8-10 years and value in May 1985 as £ 20,000/-.
Fact	There was also value as available in <ORG> July 1985.
Fact	But the department had based its assessment on the value of a new computer as given in <ORG>, giving 10% annual depreciation for 3 years.
RulingByLowerCourt	On a detailed consideration of the evidence on record, the <ORG> held in that case that it would be reasonable to adopt the highest of the three prices to which the amount of freight and insurance was to be added.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> in that case further held that since no foreign exchange remittance was involved,  and since no case of deliberate undervaluation of the goods was made out, confiscation of the goods and imposition of fine would not be justified.
RulingByLowerCourt	We find, in the present case also, the ratio of the above decision of the <ORG> can be applied and the highest out of the three values can be adopted, namely, the declared value of Rs.
Fact	35,000/-, the value of Rs.
Fact	1 lakh as certified by <ORG>; and the value of U.S. $ 3180 as sworn by the Superintendent Priest of the temple.
Fact	To this highest of value the amount of freight and insurance have to be added.
Fact	In regard to the freight and insurance amount the same should be taken as already indicated in the Show Cause Notice to the appellants.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, as in above cited case, since there has been no foreign exchange remittance and no case of deliberate under-invoicing has been made out on the basis of the evidence on record, the confiscation of the goods is not justified and the order of confiscation and fine on the goods is set aside, as also the penal ty on the appellants, in the absence of any proven <NAME> fides on their part.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result, we order valuation of the goods for purposes of <ORG> duty in accordance with the highest price as indicated above.
RulingByPresentCourt	The appeal is disposed of in the above terms.
