Fact	PETITIONER: <ORG>.
Fact	Vs. RESPONDENT: STATE OF U.P.
RulingByLowerCourt	AND ORS.
RulingByLowerCourt	ETC.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT22/02/1985 BENCH: <NAME>, A.
Fact	(J) BENCH: <NAME>, A.
Fact	(J) FAZALALI, SYED MURTAZA THAKKAR, M.P.
Fact	(J) CITATION: 1985 AIR 679 1985 SCR (2) 966 1985 SCC (2) 485 1985 SCALE (1)302 ACT: Constitution of India, 1950-Articles r4, 19(1) ( f ) and (g), 3I, 265 and 301.
Fact	U.P.
Fact	Krishi Utpadan Mandi Adhinyam Act, 1964, ss.
Fact	2 (a), 2(p), 17 (iii), and Rule 67 of the Rules made under s 40 of the Act-S 2(a)-Agricultural Produce-Amendment thereof by U.P.
Fact	Krishi Utpadan Mandi (Amendment and Validation) Act 1970-"Khandsari Sugar" manufactured by open pan process- Whether different from "Khandsari" produced by agriculturists indigenously-S. 2 (p)-'Producer'-Whether excludes the article produced by the petitioners from the coverage of the Act-S.17 (iii)-Market Committee (Mandi Samiti)-Whether competent to levy and collect Market fee- Rule 67-Whether petitioners liable to obtain licence and pay licence fee-Protection of producers f rom exploitation- Whether principal object or the Act.
Fact	Essential Commodities Act , 1955, s.3-U.P.
Fact	<ORG> Manufacturing Order, 1975-Cl.
Fact	2(f)-"<ORG> Sugar"-Scope of.
Fact	Section 2(a) -Validity of-Whether violative of Arts.
Fact	14, 19(1) (f) and (g), 31, 265 and 301 of the Constitution.
Fact	HEADNOTE: An Ordinance, U.P.
Fact	Krishi Utpadan Mandi Adhiniyam, 1964 (Amendment and Validation Ordnance No.
Fact	1969) passed on November 5, 1969 amended the definition of "agricultural produce" embodied in s. 2(a) of the U P. Krishi Utpadan Mandi Adhiniyam Act 1964 and 'gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery' were included in the amended definition.
Fact	This Ordinance was subsequently converted into U.P.
Fact	Krishi Utpadan Mandi (Amendment and Validation) Act 1970.
Fact	Thus '<ORG>' stood covered a by the definition of s. 2 (a) of the Act so amended.
Fact	The petitioners, who are owners of <ORG> factories, have alleged that what they produce is "<ORG> Sugar" and not '<ORG>', which is covered by the definition of "agricultural produce".
Fact	I t was contended; (1) that they are not liable to obtain a licence under Rule 67 of the Rules framed under s, 40 of the Act or to pay the licence fees (Rs.
Fact	100 per 967 annum) payable for such licence; (2) that <ORG> (<ORG>) constituted under s. 12 of the Act cannot levy and collect market fee of 1% of the value, under s. 17(iii) of the Act, on the transactions in respect of what they produce, from the traders who purchase the product from them; and (l) that s. 2 (a) of the Act is discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution Dismissing the petitions, ^ HELD: (Per Majority) 1.
Fact	The definition embodied in s. 2(a) of the Act is an inclusive one.
Fact	It in terms provides that 'Khandsari' is included within the coverage of "agricultural produce".
Fact	The Act , however.
Fact	does not define the term 'Khandsari'.
Argument	It is not sufficient to contend that what the petitioners produce is "Khandsari Sugar" and not 'Khandsari'.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has also to be shown by them that what they produce is popularly or c ommercially known as "<NAME> Sugar" and not as "<NAME>".
RatioOfTheDecision	And thus they have failed to establish.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not shown that "<NAME> Sugar" is the nomenclature employed in the world of trade and commerce in respect of their product.
RatioOfTheDecision	Neither the traders, nor the consumers are shown to have done so in their day-to-day dealings.
RatioOfTheDecision	[989F-H; 990A] 1 2.
Precedent	The term '<NAME> Sugar" owes its origin to U.P.
Precedent	KHANDSARI SUGAR MANUFACTURING ORDER of 1977 issued under s. 3 of the ESSENTlAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1955.
Precedent	"<NAME> Sugar" was defined by cl.
RatioOfTheDecision	2(f) of the said Order as meaning "sugar containing more than 90% sucrose and manufactured by open pan process including bels."
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a statutory definition enacted for the 'purpose' of the aforesaid Control Order which uses the expression "<NAME> Sugar".
RatioOfTheDecision	It has nothing to do with the moaning and content of the term <NAME>' as used by the trade in U.P.
RatioOfTheDecision	[990B-C] 2.
RatioOfTheDecision	(i) It is unnecessary for the present purpose to cite all the decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Or to undertake a journey through the  factual hinterland of each decision.
RatioOfTheDecision	Or to turn the headlights on the observations made in each of p the decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	For, the principle, though Barbed in different apparel, is simply this.
RatioOfTheDecision	In legislations pertaining to the world of business and commerce, the dictionary to refer to is the dictionary of the inhabitants of that world.
RatioOfTheDecision	What they understand by the term '<NAME>' is precisely what that term means in the statute designed to regulate their dealings and transactions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The best test therefore is to ask the question what they themselves have understood by the term <NAME>, bow they themselves have interpreted it, and on what basis they themselves have moulded their own conduct, for all these years.
RatioOfTheDecision	The factory owners similarly situated as petitioners as also the traders in general have understood the term '<NAME>' as being applicable to the <NAME> produced by the factories by open pan process as also to <NAME> produced indigenously.
Precedent	[990E-G] Commissioner of Income-tax, Andhra Pradesh v <NAME> <ORG>, (1971) 82 I.T.R.
Precedent	44 at p. 47 and <CITATION_1688074> ,  I S.C.R.
Precedent	545, relied on.
Precedent	968 2.
Precedent	(ii) Inclusion of <NAME> in the definition of "agricultural produced by virtue of amendment of s. 2(a) was challenged by a few commission agents carrying on business of sale and Purchase of <NAME> in 1969 by instituting writ petitions in <ORG> of Allahabad.
Precedent	How.
Precedent	ever, none of the grounds of challenge pertained to the aspect relating to the meaning and content of the term <NAME>'.
Precedent	The petitions were dismissed by a Single Judge and that decision was confirmed by <ORG>.
Precedent	[989C-D] 2.
Fact	(iii) Factory owners producing <NAME> have been obtaining licence under the Act and paying, without demur, market fee at 1% of the value since 1969-70 till 1981, when fresh challenge was made through the instant petitions.
Fact	For more than ten years even the petitioners have not felt that '<NAME>' means something other than what they produce.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not shown that in the popular or commercial sense, the pr oduct is not known as <NAME>' but is known as <NAME> Sugar".
Precedent	The term "<NAME> Sugar" saw the light of day seven years after the Act was enacted in 1970 when U.P.
Precedent	<NAME> Sugar Order of 1977 was born and the artificial nomenclature was coined for the restricted purpose of the order.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no material even to show that this nomenclature was known to the petitioners or to the traders themselves there to before.
RatioOfTheDecision	[990H; 991C; E-F] 3.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> has in terms encompassed '<NAME>' within the definition of s. 2(a) of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	And the term '<NAME>' is sufficiently wide to cover all varieties of <NAME> including the article produced by the factories like those of the petitioners.
RatioOfTheDecision	Besides, the basic premise assumed by the petitioners that the object of the Act is merely to protect the producers from exploitation is fallacious.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is one of the objects and not the sole or only object of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act has many more objects and a much wider horizon, and oven transactions where both the sides  are traders and neither side is agriculturist, are brought within the coverage of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	[992A-D] <NAME> v. State of U.P.,  3 S.C.R.
Precedent	104 and <NAME> Kachardas Porwal & Ors.
Precedent	v State of Maharashtra & Ors.
Fact	etc.,  2 S.C.R.
Fact	866, relied on.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is nothing in the definition of 'Producer' contained in s. 2(p) of the Act which would justify overriding the clear language of the statutes read in the light of the perspective of the Act and the history of the levy.
RatioOfTheDecision	While the term 'Khandsari' has not been defined, it is obviously wide enough to cover Khandsari produced by any process regardless of its quality or variety [994D-E] 5.
RatioOfTheDecision	This Court has had several occasions to deal with a similar problem in the context of taxing statutes.
RatioOfTheDecision	And this Court has consistently taken the view that in the matter of classification the <ORG> has a wide discretion in selecting the persons or objects it will tax, and that a statute is not open to attack on the ground that it taxes some persons or objects and not oth ers.
RatioOfTheDecision	'Everything-or- nothing' argument is basically fallacious.
RatioOfTheDecision	For, the <ORG> may tax or regulate the trade in some 969 Objects and not in others.
RatioOfTheDecision	Or may bring within its net some objects A initially and may cast the net wider later on.
RatioOfTheDecision	Or may tax or regulate the trade in only such objects which it considers expedient or worthwhile.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision essentially a policy decision, may depend on several factors.
RatioOfTheDecision	Factors, such as, the felt necessity for such an impost or regulation of a trade in a particular article, likely impact of the decision on the trade, industry, or consumer, viability of the same from the stand point of its own management resources.
RatioOfTheDecision	Or from the angle of the net advantage to be secured in the balance-sheet of pros and cons taking into account the anticipated administrative and management inputs required to be invested in the exercise.
RatioOfTheDecision	In substance, it is a policy decision turning on numerous and complex factors.
RatioOfTheDecision	[99B-E] 5 (i) It is not for this court to question why <NAME> produced  by the petitioners is included when sugar produced by the <ORG> is not so included.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not a question to which we can legitimately address ourselves, for, essentially it is a question of legislative wisdom and legislative policy dictated by countless and complex considerations.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> cannot, and will not substitute its own wisdom in place of the legislative wisdom in such matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> will not impose on itself this responsibility, if not for any other reason, than for the reason that it is beyond its province.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence s. 2(a) of the Act is not discriminatory and violative of Article 14.
Precedent	[996G-H; 997Al <CITATION_494408> ,  I S.C R. 404, relied on.
Precedent	<NAME> on Constitutional Law p. 857, referred to.
Precedent	Per <NAME>, J (Dissenting) 1.
Precedent	What the petitioners, produce in their modern Khandsari mills by the open pan process is Khandsari sugar, an industrial product like plantation white sugar and not Khandsari which is produced by agricultural producers in the indigenous method and the levy of market fee  on sales of khandsari sugar under the <ORG> is unwarranted as the <ORG> is intended for the protection of agricultural producers in the disposal of their products and only Khandsari produced by agricultural producers is included in the definition of agricultural produce" in s. 2(a) thereof and not Khandsari sugar.
Precedent	[986P-G] 2.
Precedent	A manufacturer producing Khandsari Sugar by the modern method in the open pan process is not a producer within the meaning of s. 2(p) of the <ORG>.
Precedent	[980E] 3.
Precedent	The object of the <ORG> as seen from the prefatory note and preamble is to protect the agricultural producer from exploitation.
Precedent	Protection of any industrial producer is not the object of the <ORG>.
Precedent	[979G] 4.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners in their mills with the aid of power in the open pan process by employing large number of employees to whom the Industrial Disputes Act , Minimum Wages Act , Factories Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	Employees Provident Fund Act and similar enactments apply 970 is an industrial product w hich is very different from Khandsari produced by agricultural or sugarcane growers in the old indigenous method.
RulingByLowerCourt	[982E-F] 5.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> originally intended to protect the interests of agricultural producers has not become a marketing legislation under entry 28 of List II in the Seventh Schedule by the mere fact of inclusion of one or more industrial products in the definition of agricultural produce in s. 2(a) of the <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	[983H; 984A] 6.
RulingByLowerCourt	The prefatory note and the preamble can be looked into in the present case as there is dispute between the parties on the question whether "Khandsari sugar" produced by the petitioners, which is not included in the schedule or definition of agricultural produce in the <ORG>, while "Khandsari" is mentioned in the definition of agricultural produce in s. 2(a) thereof can be the subject matter of levy of market fee under the <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	[984F-G] 7.
RatioOfTheDecision	The principle underlying the levy of tax cannot be made applicable to the levy of market fee under the <ORG>.
Precedent	Both  Plantation While Sugar and <ORG> are industrial products and there is discrimination against <ORG> in seeking to subject it to the levy under the Adhiniyam leaving out plantation <ORG> [988B] <ORG> v. State of U.P.
Precedent	& others,  3 SCR, 92 Paunakram v. State of Punjab, <ORG> SC 187 and <ORG>& Anr.
Precedent	etc.
Precedent	v. State of Andhra Pradesh & Ors.,  I SCR, 705 referred to.
Precedent	JUDGMENT:  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: WP- Nos.
Fact	1347-60/81, 132-143, 3405 16, 342Q-22, 3423-25 of 1980, 806-18 of 1981,4251,9500- 05, 9511-13 9514 of 1981, 21-23,37-43, 45-56, 63, 91-1 l l, 166-67, 174, 181-192 of 1980, 407-11 of 1979, 412-415, 416- 18 of 1979, 193-220, 237-48, 825 36, 7) 1-722 of 1982, 723- 39, 3 19-30,969-78, 2171 -73 of 1982 and 3864 69 of 1980,1227-33 of 1981,5520-22 of 1980, 1001-07 of 1981, 1109- 30 1384,1453-62, 1469 of 1981, 805-24,866, 972, 1453-62, 1498, 4667-68, 975-83, 854, 984, 1469-78, 787, 1319 24, 1400-02, 1504-05, 1608-11, 1621-25, 1934-63, 2172-77, 2228- 31, 2251-53, 237 4-75, 2327 61 2556-65, 2612-13, 2625-27, 2624, 3070-88, 3178-95, 985, 4158-65 4527-32, 5113-19, 9196- 98 of 1982, 5727, 8397, 9583, 9719-22 of 1982, 8262-67 of 1981, 10039, 10223 of 1982, 2682-84 of 1983, 3885 86 of 1983, 66-67, 68-69, 1139-2759 of 1983, 2379 of 1982, 2703, 1119 of 1983, 7993 of 1982, 1172 of 1983, 6498 of 1982 (Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India) FOR THE APPEARING PARTIES <NAME>, <NAME> <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	<NAME>, Miss <NAME>, <NAME>, Miss <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	<NAME>, and <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> Dr. <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, and <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	Miss <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, and <NAME>, Advocates <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> & <NAME>.
Fact	The following Judgments were delivered <NAME> <NAME>, J.
Fact	Writ Petitions 1347 to 1360 of 1981 and Writ Petition 174 of 1982 are by manufacturers of <ORG> sugar in the open pan process and sellers thereof in Uttar Pradesh.
Fact	Writ Petitions 21 to 23 of 1982, Writ Petitions 3178 to 3195 of 1982, Writ k. Petitions 3178 to 3195 of 1982, Writ Petitions 4527 to 4532 of 1982 and Writ Petition 3890 of 1983 are by traders in that product in U. P. The pleadings in W. Ps.
RatioOfTheDecision	1347 to 1360 of 1981 were referred to by the learned counsel for the parties when common arguments were advanced in all the writ petitions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the pleadings in those writ petitions alone are referred to in this judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	These W. Ps.
RatioOfTheDecision	1347 to 1360 of 1981 under Article 32 of the Constitution are for declaring the provisions of the U. P. Krishi Utpadan Mandi Adhiniyam, 1964 as ultra vires the Constitution and for restraining the respondents from realising market fee and licence fee from the petitioners under the provisions of that Adhiniyam (hereinafter referred to as 'the Adhiniyam').
RatioOfTheDecision	The ca se of the petitioners/firms which manufacture Khandsari sugar by the open pan process in the State of Uttar Pradesh and sell the same in that State is this.
RatioOfTheDecision	972  In the process of manufacture of Khandsari sugar there is not only a physical change of the sugarcane used but also a chemical change and the white crystalline sugar of 90 per cent sucros purity is obtained after drying, grading and vagging by eliminating all the ingredients of sugarcane except sucros.
RatioOfTheDecision	But in the case of desi khandsari, gur, jaggery, rab and shakkar which are all manufactured from raw sugarcane juice, pectins, live saps, motals, minerals, nitrogenous compounds, wages and salts are not removed and there is no chemical change in the manufacturing process.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Adhiniyam was enacted to reduce multiple trade charges and provide amenities to the producers and sellers of agricultural produce, for certification of accurate weights and scales and for the establishment of market committees to ensure that the agricultural producer has a say in  the matter of utilisation of the market funds.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Adhiniyam applies to agricultural products which according to s. 2 (a) are 'such items of produce of agriculture, horticulture, viticulture, sericulture, pisciculture, animal husbandary or forest, as are specified in the schedule, and include and mixture of two or more such items and also include any such item in processed form and further include gur, rab, shakkar, Khandsari and jaggery'.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Adhiniyam does not define khandsari sugar but it is defined in clause 2 of the U. P. Khandsari Sugar (Levy) Order, 1975 as "whole crystalline sugar containing more than 90 per cent and manufactured at a sulphitation unit by open pan process including a bel".
Argument	The khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners who hold licence for operating hydraulic power crushers is not khandsari but crystalline sugar as produced by sugar mills.
Argument	The sugar produced by the petitioners is physically and chemically different from sugarcane which is one of the items specified in the schedule t o the Adhiniyam and also from gur, rab, jaggery and khandsari and cannot be treated as a processed form of sugarcane.
Argument	'therefore, the Adhiniyam cannot apply to the product manufactured by the petitioners which is plantation white sugar.
Argument	The petitioners/firms which are producers of sugar are not liable to pay market fee under the Adhiniyam, s. 17 (iii)  (b) whereof provides that the market committee shall have power to levy and collect market fee which shall be payable on transactions of sale of specified agricultural produce in the market area at seh rates being not less than one per cent and not more than one and a half per cent of the price of the agricultural produce so sold as <ORG> may specify by notification.
Argument	Section 17 (iii) is ultra vires the Constitution as it permits excessive delegation of legislative power and does not lay down any guideline for <ORG> fixing the market fees and only A market committees rendering services can determine the quantum of market fees.
Argument	The  illegal levy of market fees on the petitioners is violative of Articles 19 (1) (f) and 301 of the Constitution.
Argument	The action of the respondents in seeking to apply the provisions of the Adhiniyam to the petitioners leaving out other manufacturers similarly situate is violative of Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	14 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 8 of the Adhiniyam is violative of Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	14 as it does not provide any guideline regarding the basis on which <ORG> can include or exclude any agricultural produce from the list of notified commodities under s. 6 .
RatioOfTheDecision	The market fees and licence fees are in the nature of payments for services rendered.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the market committees render no service at all to the petitioners and therefore the levies are really in the nature of tax.
Argument	The levies deprive the petitioners of their right to property without any authority of law and are therefore violative of Articles 265, 31 and 19 (1) (f) and (g) of the Constitution.
Argument	It is in these circumstances that the petitioners have prayed for declaration of  the provisions of the <ORG> as being ultra vires the Constitution and for the issue of a writ of mandamus restraining the respondents from realising market fee and licence fee from the petitioners under the <ORG>.
Argument	The contentions of the Mandi Samiti/respondents who oppose the petitions are these:  The petitioners who are manufacturers of khandsari/khandsari sugar are fully covered by the <ORG> in view of the definition of 'agricultural produce' in s. 2   (a).
Argument	Khandsari is mentioned in schedule 'Kha' to the notification No.
Argument	584/XII-8-104176 dated 11.4.1978.
Argument	Khandsari sugar is not sugar as is evident from the definition of sugar in s. 2 (f) of the Sugar (Regulation of Production) Act.
Argument	1961 according to which sugar means any form of sugar whether wholly or partially manufactured but does not include khandsari sugar, that is to say, sugar in the manufacture of which neither a vacuum pan process nor a vacuum operator is employed; or palmyra sugar, that is to say, sugar manufactured from jaggery obtai ned by boiling the juice of palmyra palm.
Argument	'<ORG>' is the short form of '<ORG>' in the Adhiniyam and the notification and there is nothing like khandsari different from khandsari sugar in any of the concerned laws or in common parlance.
Argument	There as only one khandsari and it is called khandsari sugar and it is manufactured by mechanical power process, The word 'sugar' has been used everywhere for the sugar manufactured by the vacuum pan process by mills and factories and the words 'khandsari sugar' have been used for the material produced by open pan process In the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966 by clause 2  (d), khandsari sugar is defined as sugar produced by the open pan process <ORG> is defined in clause 2 (f) of the U. r. <ORG> Sugar Manufacturing Order, 1967 as sugar containing more than 90 per cent sucros and manufactured by the open pan process including bels.
Argument	There is no chemical change in the process adopted by the petitioners in the manufacture of <ORG> and there is  nothing like desi Khandsari sugar.
Argument	What the petitioners call desi khandsari is shakkar produced by manual efforts.
Argument	It is true that khandsari sugar manufactured by the petitioners contains more than 90 per cent sucros but it is denied that the sugar manufactured by the petitioners is not khandsari or that it is crystalline sugar as produced by sugar mills or that the khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners is not physically and chemically different from the sugar produced by mills.
Argument	The produce manufactured by the petitioners is processed form of sugarcane, namely, sugarcane from which the chaff has been removed and the sweet material has been retained for human consumption Gur, rab, jaggery and khandsari sugar are all manufactured by the open pan process while sugar produced by mills is manufactured by the vacuum pan process.
Argument	The producers of khandsari sugar by open pan process and the producers of sugar by vacuum pan process have to take out licences under different order namely, <ORG> nufacturing Order, 1967 and U. P. Vacuum Pan Sugar Factories Licensing Order, 1969 Thus khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners is different from sugar produced by sugar mills and it is fully covered by s. 2 (a) of the Adhiniyam.
Argument	Market fee is not claimed from the petitioners in any manner different from the one stipulated in s. 17 (iii) (b) of the Adhiniyam Section 17 (iii) (b) is not ultra vires the Constitution and does not suffer from any excessive delegation of legislative power.
Argument	The levy of market fee and licence fee is not violative of any constitutional provision.
Argument	Art.
Argument	19 (1) (f) does not exist any longer and Art.
Argument	301 does not confer any fundamental right on the petitioners.
Argument	'There is no discrimination against the petitioners and s. 8 of the Adhiniyam is not violative of Art.
Argument	14- The market fee and licence fee are fees and not taxes.
Argument	A major portion of the funds of the market committees is applied for development of the market area.
Argument	<ORG> (hereinafter referred t o as 'the <ORG>'), impleaded as respondent in the petitions has filed separate counter-affidavit raising similar contentions as the market committees.
Argument	The additional contentions raised by that Board which also opposes the petitions are these:  The original definition of agricultural produce in s. 2 (a) of the Adhiniyam did not contain the words "and further includes gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery".
Argument	These words were added in the definition by the U. P. Amendment Act 10 of 1970 in order to remove anomalies in the words "processed agricultural produce".
Fact	The Government issued the said notification No.
Fact	584/X11-8-10 :176 dated 11.
Fact	4.
Fact	1978 after considering all the objections raised, specifically mentioning Khandsari along with gur, rab, shakkar and jaggery in the list of 115 commodities liable for the levy of market fees.
Argument	The sale of khandsari is free without any Government control and it is effected in the market areas by commission agents by mutual negotiation or open auction while a large part of t he sugar produced by the vacuum pan process is controlled by <ORG>.
Argument	Sugar and khandsari are distinct and different from each other.
Argument	The sugar produced in vacuum pan process is standardized as per <ORG> and graded into A30, B30, C30, D30, E30, A29, B29 C29, D29 and E29 whereas khandsari sugar produced by the open pan process is called khandsari, khandsari sugar, rab and sugar in the market.
Argument	There is no levy on khandsari and it is sold in the open market whereas 65 per cent of the sugar produced in the mills by the vacuum pan process is taken by <ORG> for feeding the public distribution system by levy and the remaining 35 per cent along is left with the factories for free sale through wholesale dealers approved under the control orders.
Argument	The producers of khandsari sugar are not liable to pay the impugned market fee.
Argument	they are liable to pay it only if they also hold licences as commission agents or wholesale dealers and sell the product.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learne d counsel for the petitioners advanced arguments in these petitions under three main heads, namely (i) whether khandsari sugar manufactured by the petitioners in their mills by the open pan process is an agricultural produce, covered by the <ORG> as amended by the U. P. Ace 10 of 1970; (ii) whether khandsari sugar manufactured by the petitioners in their industrial units employing a large number of workmen to whom the Industrial Disputes Act , Employees Provident Fund Act , Factories Act and Minimum Wages Act apply and which is subject to levy of excise duty under the Sugar (Special Excise Duty) Act , 1959 is subject to the levy of market fee under the <ORG> and (iii) whether on account of the interpretation of the <ORG>, khandsari sugar manufactured by the petitioners could be said to be subject to the levy of market fee under the <ORG> there is any difference between khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners in the open pan process, and the plantation white sugar produced by the other mill s in the vacuum pan process, and there is no discrimination between khandsari sugar sought to be subjected to the levy of market fee under the <ORG> and the plantation white sugar produced by the vacuum pan process which is not subject to the levy under the <ORG>.
Argument	He clubbed his arguments on points (i) and  (ii) and submitted that khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners in their mills by the open pan process is not an agricultural produce contemplated to be covered by the provisions of the <ORG> for the purpose of levy of the market fee as it is not produced by the agricultural producer but produced in mills employing modern methods though under the open pan process.
Argument	On the third point he submitted that there is no difference between the khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners in their mills by the open pan process and the plantation white sugar produced by the other mills by the vacuum pan process except that khandsari sugar is produced by the open pan process while the plantation white s ugar is produced by the vacuum pan process and the difference in the composition of the two products is only as regards CAO, filterability and conductivity and consequently there is discrimination hit by Art.
Argument	14 of the Constitution in leaving plantation white sugar out of the levy and seeking to subject the khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners-mills alone to the levy of market fee under the <ORG>.
Argument	On the other hand, Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the <ORG> submitted that the original object of the <ORG> was protection of agricultural produce as originally defined in the <ORG> and that the position has changed now and it has become a marketing legislation covered by entry 28 of List II (Market) of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.
Argument	He further submitted that if the <ORG> has become a marketing legislation as contended by him industrial produce also can be included in the schedule of produce appended to the <ORG> and khandsari is genus and khandsari sugar is a specie a nd it is liable to be subjected to the A levy of market fee under the <ORG>.
Argument	As regards discrimination Mr. <NAME> submitted that similarity is one thing and identity is another and that Art.
Argument	14 will be attracted only in the case of identity and there is difference between Khandsari sugar and plantation white sugar and therefore there is no question of discrimination.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for <ORG> submitted that it is not the only object of the <ORG> to benefit the agricultural producer, but 2 number of other objects are noticeable in the <ORG> and that if the object is to protect the agricultural producer alone the levy of market fee would have been confined to the first sale alone.
Argument	He further submitted that the <ORG> covers sales by producers to traders and sales by traders to other traders subject to the requirement that what is sold is an agricultural produce and no market fee is livable on retail sales etc.
Argument	having regard to the proviso to s. 17 of the Adhiniya m. He submitted that the levy is not on khandsari producers but on khandsari traders and that what is contained in the preamble to the Adhiniyam is slightly different from the scheme of the Adhiniyam, and s. 2 (a) of the Adhiniyam has to be looked into independently of the preamble which in turn can be looked into only in case of ambiguity.
Argument	He too submitted that khandsari is a genus and khandsari sugar is a specie.
Argument	He however.
Argument	admitted that agriculturists producing khandsari without the use of power need not obtain licence for its remanufacture while producers of khandsari sugar by the open pan process in the khandsari industry are bound to obtain licence.
Argument	He contended that what is produced by the petitioners would fall within the ambit of s. 2 (a) of the Adhiniyam.
Argument	On the question of discrimination he submitted that plantation white sugar manufactured by the vacuum pan process does not require regulation, unlike khandsari sugar produced by the open pan process and that if that is so there is no question of d iscrimination in not subjecting the plantation white sugar to the levy of market fee under the <ORG>.
Argument	Dr. <NAME> <NAME>, learned counsel for the <ORG>, <ORG> and Mandi, the respondents in W. Ps.
Argument	1348 to 1360 of 1981 submitted that s. 2 (a) of the <ORG> deals also with traders as held in <ORG> vs. <ORG>) and that what the petitioners produce is khandsari though it may (1)  3 S. C. R 92.
Argument	978  be more refined than khandsari produced by the agriculturists with out the aid of power.
Argument	On the question of discrimination he submitted that whatever was considered necessary to be regulated was included in the schedule to the <ORG> and that there is no discrimination in not subjecting plantation white sugar produced by the vacuum pan process to the levy of market fee under the <ORG>.
Argument	'I he prefatory note to the <ORG> as extracted from the 'Statement of Objects and Reasons may be noted.
Argument	It reads:  "The present chaotic state of affairs as obtaining in agri cultural produce markets is an acknowledged fact.
Argument	There are innumerable charges, levies and exactions which the agricultural producer is required to pay without having any say in the proper utilisation of the amount so paid by him.
Argument	In matters of dispute between the seller and the buyer, the former is generally put at a disadvantage by being given arbitrary awards.
Argument	The producer is also denied a large part of his produce by manipulation and defective use of weights and scales in the market <ORG> and the various committees and commissions appointed to study the condition of agricultural markets in the country have also been inviting the attention of <ORG> from time to lime towards improving the conditions of these markets.
Argument	The proposal to enact a marketing legislation was first taken up in 1938; but it could not go through as the then <ORG> went out of office soon.
Argument	after its inception .
Argument	<ORG> stressed long ago that legislation in respect c f regulation of mar kets should be enacted and enforced by 1955-56.
Argument	Most of the other States have already passed legislation in this respect.
RatioOfTheDecision	The proposed measure to regulate the markets in this State has been designed with a view to achieving the following direction-  (i) to reduce the multiple trade charges, levies and exactions charged at present from the producer sellers;  (ii) to provide for the verification of accurate weights and scales and see that the producer- seller is not denied his legitimate due;  (iii) to establish market committees in which the A agricultural producer will have his due representation;  (iv) to ensure that the agricultural producer has his say in the utilisation of market funds for the improvement of the market as a whole;  (v) to provide for fair settlement of disputes relating to the sale of agricultural produce;  (vi) to provide amenities to the producer-seller in the market;  (vii) to arrange for better storage facilities;  (vii) to stop inequitable and unauthorised charges and levies from the  Producer-seller; and  (ix) to make adequate arrangements for market intelligence with a view to posting the agricultural producer with the latest position in respect of the markets dealing with his produce".
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied) The prefatory note shows that the object of the <NAME> is to save the agricultural producer from innumerable charges, levies and exactions and to enable him to have a say in the proper utilisation of the amounts paid by him, to reduce the multiple charges, levies exactions charged from producer-sellers and generally to help the agricultural producer to sell his produce to his best advantage.
RatioOfTheDecision	The objects set out in the prefatory note are reflected in a concised form in the preamble to the <NAME> which says that it is " An Act to provide for the regulation of sale and purchase of agricultural produce and for the establishment, superintendence and control of markets therefore in Uttar Pradesh".
RatioOfTheDecision	The preamble also speaks of the necessity to provide for the regulation of sale and pur chase of agricultural produce and the establishment, superintendence and control of markets therefore in Uttar Pradesh.
RatioOfTheDecision	'Thus the object of the <ORG> as seen from the prefatory note and preamble is to protect the agricultural producer from exploitation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Protection of any industrial producer is not the object of the <ORG>.
Statute	Section 2(p) of the <ORG> defines a "producer" as meaning "a person who, whether by himself or through hired labour, produces, rears or catches any agricultural produce, not being a producer who also works as a trader, broker or dalal, commission agent or arhatiya or who is otherwise ordinarily engaged m the business of storage of agricultural produce".
RatioOfTheDecision	agricultural produce is defined in s. 2(a) of the <ORG> as meaning "such items of produce of agriculture, horticulture, viticulture, agriculture, siriculture, pisciculture, animal husbandry or forest as are specified in the schedule and includes admixture of two or more of such items and also includes any such item in process ed form and further includes gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery".
RatioOfTheDecision	The words "and further includes gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery" have been introduced into s. 2(a) of the Adhiniyam by the U.P.
RatioOfTheDecision	Amendment Act 10 of 1970.
RatioOfTheDecision	Trader is defined in s. 2(y) of the Adhiniyam as meaning "a person who is engaged in buying or selling agricultural produce as a principal or as a duly authorised agent of one or more principals and includes a person engaged in producing agricultural produce".
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus it is seen from the definition of producer and trader in the Adhiniyam that emphasis is on the product produced, reared or caught by agriculturists whether by their own or through hired labour and that such producer does not include a producer who also works as a trader, broker, dalal, commission agent or arhatiya or who is otherwise ordinarily engaged in the business of storage of agricultural produce.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, it is not possible to hold that manufacturer producing khandsari sugar by the modern method in the open p an process is a producer within the meaning of s. 2(p) of the Adhiniyam.
RatioOfTheDecision	The schedule to the Adhiniyam consists of 175 items including paddy, honey, silk, eggs and ghee which were in the schedule from the inception.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, as stated earlier "Khandsari" is one of the items introduced into the definition of agricultural produce in s. 2(a) of the Adhiniyam by the Amendment Act 10 of 1970.
Argument	It is seen from Annexure VIII to the counter-affidavit of the respondent-<ORG> filed in W. Ps.
Argument	1347-1360 of 1981 that "The technique of sugar manufactured through the indigenous process without the use of complicated machinery has been known in this country from time immemorial.
Argument	The sugar thus produced is known as khandsari".
Argument	In the counter- affidavit of <NAME>, Deputy Director (Marketing) of the <ORG> filed for the petitioners' additional affidavit it is admitted that farmers and sugarcane growers produce, what he calls, khandsari sugar with the help of small electric motors, diesel engines or their own tractors.
Fact	Mr. <NAME> submitted that khandsari introduced in s. 2(a) of the Andhiniyam by the Amendment Act 10 of 1970 is khandsari produced by agriculturists and sugarcane growers in the old and primitive method and not khandsari sugar produced in khandsari mills in the modern sulphitation open pan process.
Fact	Annexure Vl to the counter-affidavit filed by the <ORG> in W. Ps 1347-1360 of 1981 is the report of the Director of <ORG>, <ORG> Kanpur regarding the approximate composition of khandsari sugar produced by the modern sulphitation process and that of plantation white sugar produced by the vacuum pan sugar factories.
Fact	It is extracted for ready reference:  Particulars Vacuam pan sugar Khandsari sugar Pol 99.8 to 99.95 99.4 to 99.9 Reducing sugars 0.04 to 0.25 0.10 to 0.40 CAO (Mg/l00 gm) 10 to 35 45 to 80 SO2 (ppm) 2.25 5.25 Viscosity CP 20.30 20.30 Conductivity x 10(6) 3 to 15 50 to 200 Turbidity % 10 to 30 40 to 70 Filterability (FK) 0.3 to 2.5 50 to 400 Shape of crystals M onoclinic Flattened or a cubd Moisture 0.04 to 0.15 00.15 to 0.S0 Water insoluble by wt.
Fact	% - -  Colour OD 400-OD-  500 0.02 to - 0.05 0.04 to 0.015 It is seen from this report that the difference between plantation white sugar produced by the vacuum pan process and khandsari sugar produced by the open pan process in their composition is marked only as regards CAO, filterability, and conductivity and that the other items are more or less the same.
Fact	In the aforesaid counter affidavit of <NAME> it is stated that "khandsari produced by non-sulphur units and khandsari produced by non-sulphur units is similar in process, raw-materials and sucros contents.
Fact	There may be slight difference in colour and crystalline nature of the substance which is attributable to the better clarification method and better equipment adopted by sulphur units which are all improvements and which create no difference in the nature of the product, i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	khandsari".
RatioOfTheDecision	982  In the counter-affidavit of <NAME>, Secretary, Kris hi <ORG>, Moradabad filed in W.P.1359 of 1981 it is admitted that the juice of sugarcane boiled in the open pan by the producers and the khandsari sugar manufactured by them contains more than 90 per cent sucros.
Argument	In Annexure VIII to the counter affidavit filed in W.P.
Argument	1347-1360 of 1981 it is stated that the improved process of khandsari manufacture as evolved by <ORG> of <ORG>, Kanpur is a simplified form of the single sulphitation process as employed in the vacuum pan factories and that as a result of the improvements it is now possible to get a recovery of 7.5 to 8.0 per cent of sugar on cane of average quality and the first sugar produced is quite comparable to ordinary grade crystal sugar produced by the vacuum pan process.
Argument	That process which has been set out in that Annexure though brief is quite elaborate and not far different from the one adopted in the manufacture of plantation white sugar by the vacuum pan process.
Argument	On an inspection  of the samples of khandsari sugar and plantation white sugar produced in the <ORG> during the arguments in these writ petitions it was noticed that both khandsari sugar and plantation white sugar are white in colour and crystalline in form though the plantation white sugar is a little more lustrous than khandsari sugar.
Argument	But khandsari produced by the agriculturists or sugarcane growers in the indigenous method is powdery in form and yellowish in colour.
Argument	In these circumstances, I am of the opinion that khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners in their mills with the aid of power in the open pan process by employing large number of employees to whom the Industrial Disputes Act , Minimum Wages Act , Factories Act , Employees Provident Fund Act and similar enactments apply is an industrial product which is very different from khandsari produced by agriculturists of sugarcane growers in the old indigenous method.
Argument	According to s. 2(d) of the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966 khandsari sugar means sugar produced b y the open pan process.
Argument	According to s. 2(f) of the U.P.
Argument	Khandsari Sugar Manufacturers Licensing Order, 1967 khandsari means sugar containing more than 90 per cent sucros and manufactured by the open pan process.
Argument	Section 3 of that Order makes it obligatory to obtain a licence for the manufacture of khandsari sugar.
Argument	Section 3(4) (a) of that Order regulates the khandsari sugar manufacturing industry in the best interest of that industry.
Argument	As mentioned above, it is admitted that no licence is necessary for the manufacture of khandsari by the agriculturists or producers of sugarcane in the indigenous method without the use of power.
Argument	It is not disputed that khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners is subject to excise duty under the Sugar (Special  Duty) Act , 1959.
Argument	Clause (ii) of s. 2(c) of that Act illustrates one of the sugars not subjected to the duty, namely, palmyra sugar, that is to say, sugar manufactured from jaggery obtained by boiling the juice of palmyra palm.
Argument	The word 'sugar' has been too broadly em ployed in the Sugar (Special Duty) Act , 1959.
Argument	But it is significant to note that in the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966 and the U.P.
Argument	Khandsari Sugar Manufacturers Licensing Order, 1967, what is covered is khandsari sugar, whereas what has been introduced into s 2(a) of the Act by the Amendment Act 10 of 1970 is "khandsari".
Argument	Thus it would appear that what is sought to be subjected to the levy of market fee under the Adhiniyam is khandsari produced by the agriculturist or producer of sugarcane in the old indigenous method and not khandsari sugar produced by persons like the petitioners in their modern mills by the open pan process.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, appearing for the <ORG> and Mr. <NAME> appearing for <ORG> have, in my view, conceded by their submission that khandsari is genus and khandsari sugar is a speci that what the petitioners produce in their mills by the open pan process is `'khandsari sugar" and not "khandsari".
Argument	Dr. <NAME> appearing for the respondents in W. Ps.
Argument	13-8-60 of 198 1 has also done so but in a slightly different way by saying that what the petitioners produce is <ORG>, whether it is more or less refined than <ORG> as such.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> conceded in the course of his arguments that protection of the agricultural producer was the object when the original idea of the <ORG> started and he submitted that the object has now become widened and it is now not a legislation for protecting the interests of only agricultural producers and that it has become a marketing legislation under entry 28 of List II in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and industrial products also can be included in the schedule.
Argument	There is a further implied submission in this argument of Mr. <NAME> that <ORG> sugar is an industrial product as it undoubtedly is.
Argument	If the original idea as indicated in the prefatory note and preamble of the <ORG> was to protect the interests of agricultural producers in disposing of his products such as paddy, rice, silk, eggs, honey, fish and the like, and th e <ORG> was enacted with that object in my view.
Argument	it cannot be converted into a general marketing legislation by the mere inclusion of industrial products, not possible of production by agricultural producers, either in the schedule or in the definition of agricultural produce in s. 2 (a) of the <ORG>.
Argument	Therefore, it is not possible to accept the argument of Mr. <NAME> that the <ORG> originally intended to protect the interests of agricultural producers has become a marketing legislation under entry 28 of List II in the Seventh Schedule by the mere fact of inclusion of one or more industrial products in the definition of agricultural produce in s 2 (a) of the <ORG>.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> submitted that it is not the only purpose of the <ORG> to protect the interests of the agricultural producer that a number of other objects are sought to be achieved by the <ORG> and that if the object of the <ORG> was to protect the interests of agricultural producers alone, the levy of market foe would have b een confined to first sales of agricultural produce.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> would thus say that the only object of the Adhiniyam is not protection of the interests of the agricultural producer in the disposal of his products to his best advantage.
Argument	The question whether the levy of market fee under the Adhiniyam is at a single point or whether it is a multi-point levy was not elaborated by Mr. <NAME>.
Argument	Therefore, it is not possible to draw any inference from his submission based on the point of levy of market fee under the Act though it was pointed out by him that under the scheme of the Adhiniyam sales by producers to traders and by traders to other traders but not retail sales to consumers are subject to the levy of market fee provided that the produce sold is agricultural produce.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> submitted that the levy under the Adhiniyam is on the khandsari trader and not on khandsari producer.
RatioOfTheDecision	That would be 80 if the item with reference to which levy is made is one produced by an agricultural producer to protect whose inte rests the Adhiniyam has been enacted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners in their mills by the open pan process is not an agricultural produce but an industrial produce.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> is right in his submission that the preamble could be looked into only in the case of ambiguity.
Argument	The prefatory note and the preamble can be looked into only in the present case as there is dispute between the parties on the question whether khandsari sugar" produced by the petitioners, which is not included in the schedule or definition of agricultural produce in the Adhiniyam, while "khandsari" is mentioned in the definition of agricultural produce in s. 2(a) thereof can be the subject matter of levy of market fee under the Adhiniyam.
Argument	It is not possible to accept the submission of Dr <NAME> that what the petitioners produce is an agricultural produce, be it more or less refined than khandsari.
Argument	What the petitioners produce in their modern mills by the open pan process is khandsari sugar, an industrial produce, and not an  agricultural produce which is produced by agriculturists.
Argument	It is admitted by Dr. <NAME> that the petitioners' factories are working under licences and that it is not obligatory on agricultural producers producing khandsari in the indigenous method to obtain licences for producing the same.
Argument	985  Reference is made at page 3 in the judgment of my learned A brother <NAME>, J. in these Writ Petitions, to the judgment of a Division Bench of <ORG> in Special Appeal No.
Fact	175 of 1973 filed against the decision of a Single Judge of that court in W P. No.
Fact	4636 of 1969.
Fact	It is Annexure II to the counter affidavit of the <ORG> in W.P.
Fact	1350 etc.
Fact	Of 1981.
Fact	The reliefs claimed in that Writ Petition were a writ of certioraris quashing the U.P.
Fact	Ordinance 8 of 1979 which was replaced by the Amendment Act 10 of 1970 and a writ of mandamus directing the respondents State of Uttar Pradesh and others not to enforce the Ordinance against the petitioners therein.
Fact	The appellants in that case were commission agents  carrying on business in the sale and purchase of gur, shakkar and khandsari in the New Mandi, Muzaffarnagar.
Fact	<ORG> issued a notification dated 8.11.1968 under s. 5 (1) of the Adhiniyam declaring their intention to regulate the sale and purchase of specified agricultural produce in the areas including the New Mandi, Muzaffarnagar.
Fact	That notification included among other things gur, rab, shakkar and khandsari.
Fact	After the issue of that notification the Mandi Samiti authorities required the writ petitioners in that case to obtain licences for carrying on their business in gur, rab, shakkar and khandsari.
Fact	Thereupon, a writ petition, out of which Special Appeal No.
RulingByLowerCourt	49 of 1969 arose, was filed by one <NAME>, challenging the enforcement of the Adhiniyam against him.
RulingByLowerCourt	In that appeal, decided on 11.3.1969 <ORG> of <ORG> held that gur, rab and jaggery are not agricultural produce within the meaning of s. 2(a) .
RulingByLowerCourt	It was after that decision that Ordinance No.
RulingByLowerCourt	8 of 1970 was promulgated  including gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery in s. 2(a) of the Adhiniyam.
RulingByLowerCourt	The points raised in the aforesaid Special Appeal No.
RulingByLowerCourt	175 of 1973 were: (1) <ORG> was not competent to enlarge the definition of agricultural produce so as to include gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery within the term 'agricultural produce"; (2) <ORG> had no legislative competence to enact the U P. Amendment Act 10 of 1970 as that Act was with reference to subject of industries the control of which lay with <ORG> as declared by <ORG> by law to be expedient in the public interest within the meaning of entry 52 of List I to the Seventh Schedule; (3) The provisions of the Amendment Act 10 of 1970 are repugnant to the Industries Development and Regulation Act , 1951; (4) The provisions of the Amendment Act 10 of 1970 are discriminatory as vacuum pan sugar is not included in the definition of agricultural produce in s. 2(a) ; and (5) The provisions of the Amendment Act 10 of 197 0 infringe the fundamental right guaranteed by Art.
RulingByLowerCourt	19(1) (f) and (g) of the Constitution.
Fact	986  <ORG> held in Special Appeal No.
RatioOfTheDecision	175 of 1973 relying upon this <ORG>'s decision in Paunakram v. State of Punjab(l) that in view of the extended definition of agricultural produce after the Amendment Act 10 of 1970 an enquiry whether gur, rab, shakkar and khandsari are agricultural produce or not is beyond the purview of the <ORG> and that there is no discrimination as there is essential U difference between gur, rab, shakkar and khandsari under one head and vacuum pan sugar on the other, as the former are manufactured by the open pan process and the latter is manufactured by the vacuum pan process and the vacuum pan process sugar industry is in existence since 1931 and involves big sugar factories whereas industries producing khandsari sugar by open pan process are of recent origin and those units carry on small scale business.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my view, these may be good reasons for not subjecting khandsari sugar to th e levy of market fee and subjecting plantation white sugar to the levy.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not necessary to refer to the decision of <ORG> on the other three points.
Argument	It is sufficient to say that in my view that decision relates to the necessity to obtain a licence under the Adhiniyam for dealing in khandsari sugar and certain other commodities introduced into the definition of agricultural produce by the Ordinance which was replaced by the U.P.
Argument	Amendment Act 10 of 1970 and it had nothing to do with the liability of khandsari sugar manufacturers-sellers to pay market fee under the Adhiniyam.
Argument	In these circumstances, I hold that what the petitioners produce in their modern khandsari mills by the open pan process is khandsari sugar, an industrial product like plantation white sugar and not khandsari which is produced by agricultural producers in the indigenous method and that the levy of market fee on sales of khandsari sugar under the Adhiniyam is unwarranted as the Adhiniyam is intended for the protection of agric ultural producers in the disposal of their products and only khandsari produced by agricultural producers is included in the definition of agriculture produce in s. 2(a) thereof and not khandsari sugar.
Argument	On the question of discrimination, Mr. <NAME> submitted that plantation white sugar produced is by the vacuum pan process, in the same manner as khandsari sugar is produced by the open pan process and that there is 110 major difference between the two industrial products and there is discrimination in so far as plantation white sugar is not sought to be subjected to the levy of market fee under the Adhiniyam where only khandsari sugar is (1) AIR 1995 SC 187.
Argument	987  sought t 1 be subjected to the levy.
Argument	He submitted that the difference A in the process of manufacture alone is not a distinguishing factor and that the difference in the process of manufacture cannot be a ground for holding that there is no discrimination if the levy could be made on khandsari sugar under the Adhiniyam, leaving plantation wh ite sugar out of its purview.
Argument	He further submitted that plantation white sugar is produced in larger quantity than khandsari sugar and that traders in plantation white sugar also derive advantage by the use of the market area in the whole of the State of Uttar Pradesh which has been divided into 250 market areas and no part of that State is left uncovered by the <ORG>.
Argument	In this connection, Mr. <NAME> invited the attention of this Court to the decision in <ORG> v. State of U.P.
Argument	and Ors.
Argument	(l) where it is observed at page 94 that the restriction may be partial, complete, permanent or temporary but this must bear a close nexus with the object sought to be achieved.
Argument	As stated earlier, Mr. <NAME> submitted that the two products must be identical for attracting the bar of Art.
Argument	14 of the Constitution and that similarity alone will not do.
Argument	But it must be remembered that the <ORG> is concerned with the levy of market fee on a variety of products, namely, agricultural produce and that if  khandsari sugar produced by the petitioners in their mills by the open pan process out of sugarcane juice could be brought under the purview of the <ORG> it is difficult to understand how plantation white sugar for the production of which also sugarcane is the raw material could be exempted from the levy.
Argument	The levy of market fee could not be said to depend upon the exact chemical composition of the commodity.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> submitted that plantation white sugar produced by the vacuum pan process does not require regulation and, therefore, there is no discrimination in not subjecting it to the levy under <ORG>.
Argument	Similarly, Dr. <NAME> submitted that whatever was considered necessary to be regulated was brought under the <ORG> and that there is no discrimination.
Argument	It is not possible to accept this submission of Mr. <NAME> and Dr. <NAME>.
Argument	Plantation white sugar does not require less regulation than khandsari sugar.
Precedent	Reference was made to this <ORG>'s decision in <ORG> and <ORG> v State of  Andhra Pradesh and Ors.
Precedent	(2) where it has been held that factories producing plantation white sugar by the vacuum pan (1)  3 SCR 92 at 94.
Precedent	(2) [1968] 1 SCR.
Precedent	705.
Argument	988  process and khandsari units producing sugar by the open pan process are distinct and separate units.
Argument	That case related to imposition of tax on sugar and exemption of khandsari and jaggery from the levy.
Argument	The principle underlying the levy of tax cannot be made applicable to the levy of market fee under the Adhiniyam.
Argument	Both plantation white sugar and khandsari sugar are industrial products and there is clear discrimination, in my view, against khandsari sugar in seeking to subject it to the levy under the Adhiniyam leaving out plantation white sugar.
Argument	For the reasons mentioned above I am of the opinion that the Writ Petitions deserve to succeed They are accordingly allowed but without any order as to costs.
Argument	<NAME>, J.
Argument	The petitioners in the Present group of fourteen Writ petitions under Art- 32 of the Constitution of India, are owners of <ORG>  factories in Uttar Pradesh They seek appropriate relief on the premise that what they produce is 'Khandsari Sugar' and not 'Khandsari which is covered by the definition of 'Agricultural Produce' in section 2(a) of U.P.
Argument	Krishi Utpadan Mandi Adhiniyam Act, 1964 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act') which read as under:  "agricultural produce" means such items of produce of agriculture, horticulture, viticulture, apiculture, sericulture, pisciculture; animal husbandry or forest as are specified in the Schedule, and includes admixture of two or more of such items, and also includes any such item in processed form, and further includes gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery;  Accordingly they contend that they are not liable to obtain a licence under Rule 67 of the Rules framed in exercise of powers under section 40 of the Act or to pay the licence fees (Rs.
Argument	100 per annum) payable for such licence.
Argument	So also they contend that <ORG> (<ORG>) constituted under section 12 of the Act cannot levy  and collect market fee of I % of the value, under section 17   (iii) of the Act, on the transactions in respect of what they produce, from the traders who purchase the product from them.
Fact	Resistance to the regulation of the trade in 'Khandsari' and the collection of market fees thereon dates back to 1969.
Fact	It was on November 5, 1969 that an Ordinance, U.P.
Fact	Krishi UtPadan Mandi Adhiniyam, 1964 (Amendment and validation Ordinance No.
Fact	1969) A was passed, where under, the definition of 'agricultural produce' embodied in section 2(a) of the Act was amended by including 'gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery'.
Fact	The said Ordinance was subsequently converted into U.P.
Fact	Krishi Utpadan Mandi (Amendment and Validation) Act of 1970.
Fact	Thus, 'Khandsari' stood covered by the definition of section 2(a) of the Act SO amended.
Fact	And this provided the starting point of resistance in the form of a Writ Petition on the part of a few Commission Agents carrying on the business of sale and purchase of Khandsari.- They instituted a Wri t Petition, being Misc.
Fact	Writ Petition No.
Fact	4835 of 1969 in <ORG>, challenging the validity of the inclusion of '<ORG>' in the definition of 'agricultural produce' contained in section 2(a) .
Fact	The challenge was made on several grounds but no distinction was sought to be made between <ORG> produced indigenously on the one hand and <ORG> produced in the factories like the petitioners' factories on the other hands by calling the latter as '<ORG> Sugar'.
Fact	A learned single judge, by his judgment and order dated February 18, 1972, repelled the challenge and dismissed the Writ Petition.
Fact	<ORG> of <ORG> confirmed the decision in Special Appeal No.
Fact	175 of 1973 on September 7, 1977.
Fact	The matter appears to have rested there till 1981.
Fact	Market fees were being collected in respect of '<ORG>' produced by the factories like the Petitioners' factories under the Act ever since 1969-70.
Fact	So also the factory owners were obtaining the requisite licence under the Ac t since 1969-70 Eleven years later, some of the factory owners, petitioners herein, have woken up to the problem and have renewed the challenge by way of the present petitions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The definition embodied in section 2(a) of the Act is an inclusive one.
Argument	It in terms provides that '<ORG> is included within the coverage of "agricultural produce" The Act however does not define the term '<ORG>'.
Argument	The owners of the '<ORG> factories', petitioners herein, therefore contend that what they produce is "<ORG> Sugar" and not '<ORG>'.
Argument	But then it is not Q sufficient for the petitioners to describe their product as "<ORG> Sugar" in order to successfully contend that it is not '<ORG>'.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is further more necessary for them to show that they produce is popularly or commercially known as "<ORG> Sugar" and not as '<ORG>'.
RatioOfTheDecision	And this they have failed to establish.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not shown that "<ORG> Sugar" is the nomenclature employed in the world of trade and commerce in respect of their product.
RatioOfTheDecision	Neithe r the traders, nor the consumers are shown to have done so in their day to-day dealings.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears that the term "Khandsari Sugar" owes its origin to U.P.
RatioOfTheDecision	KHANDSARI SUGAR MANUFACTURING ORDER of 1977 issued under <CITATION_158335608> of the ESSENTIAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1955.
RatioOfTheDecision	But then "Khandsari Sugar" was defined by clause 2(f) of the said order as meaning "sugar containing more than 90% sucrose and manufactured by open pan process including bels."
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a statutory definition enacted for the 'purpose' of the aforesaid Control Order issued under <CITATION_158335608> of the Essential Commodities Act which Control Order uses the expression 'Khandsari Sugar'.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has nothing to do with the meaning and content of the term 'Khandsari as used by the trade in U.P.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since the term 'Khandsari' has not been defined by the Act, it must be construed in its popular sense.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is to say in the sense in which people conversant with the subject-matter with which the statute is dealing, would attribute to it.This principle of c onstruction has been affirmed and reaffirmed by this <ORG> in <CITATION_1015973> (1) and <ORG> v. State of Haryana(Z) as also in numerous other decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is unnecessary for the present purpose to cite all the decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Or to undertake a journey through the factual hinterland of each decision.
RatioOfTheDecision	Or to turn the headlights on the observations made in each of the decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	For, the principle, though garbed in different apparel, is simply this.
RatioOfTheDecision	In legislations pertaining to the world of business and commerce, the dictionary to refer to is the dictionary of the inhabitants of that world.
RatioOfTheDecision	What they understand by the term '<NAME>' is precisely what that term means in the statute designed to regulate their dealings and transactions The best test, therefore, is to ask the question what they themselves have understood by the term '<NAME>', how they themselves have interpreted it, and on what basis they themselves have moulded their own conduct, for all these years.
RatioOfTheDecision	The factory owners si milarly situated as petitioners as also the traders in general have understood the term '<ORG>' as being applicable to the <ORG> produced by the factories by open pan process as also to <ORG> produced indigenously.
Precedent	They have been obtaining licence under the Act and paying market (1)  82 I.T.R.
Precedent	44 at p. 47.
Precedent	(2) [1979] 1 S.C.R.
Precedent	545.
Precedent	991  fee at 1% of the value since 1969-70 till 1981 without demur.
RulingByLowerCourt	even A though the coverage of '<ORG>' by virtue of the definition of section 2(a) as amended in 1969-70 was challenged in 1969 it was not on this ground.
RulingByLowerCourt	As mentioned earlier, the challenge initiated in 1969 ended in 1979 with the decision of <ORG> of <ORG> rendered in Special Appeal No 175 of 197 3.
RulingByLowerCourt	A copy of this judgment has been placed on record of the present group of petitions at annexure II.
RatioOfTheDecision	[t is not necessary to advert to the judgment in detail for the purposes of the discussion of the present point.
RatioOfTheDecision	Suffice it to say that the challenge was made on five groun ds indicated in the judgment and that none of these grounds pertained to the aspect relating to the meaning and content of the term '<ORG>'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, for more then ten years even the petitioners have not felt that '<ORG>' means something other than what they produce.
Argument	The petitioners have not established that their produce is marketed under a different name in the market.
Argument	There is no material for holding that the petitioners sell their product under the name "<ORG> Sugar" to the traders.
Argument	Or that the traders inter se in transacting their business refer to the same as <ORG> Sugar.
Argument	Or that any consumer desirous of purchasing factory produced <ORG> would ask for "<ORG> Sugar".
Argument	I- is not shown that either the petitioners or the traders or the consumers refer to the product as "<ORG> Sugar".
Argument	Nor is it shown that it is not marketed under the name '<ORG>'.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, it is not shown that in the popular or commercial sense, the product is not known as '<ORG>', but is known as Khand sari Sugar.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this context one significant fact needs to be stressed, namely, that the term "<ORG> Sugar" saw the light of day seven years after the Act was enacted in 1970 when U.P <ORG> Sugar Order of 1977 was born and the artificial nomenclature was coined for the restricted purpose of the Order.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no material even to show that this nomenclature was known to the petitioners or to the traders themselves there to before The contention that the article produced by the petitioners is not <ORG> must, therefore, be firmly and unhesitatingly negatived.
RatioOfTheDecision	The legislature, it is also argued, 'could not have intended' to cover the produce turned out by producers like the petitioners The principal object of the Act is to protect the producers from exploitation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Those who own or run <ORG> units, like the petitioners, engaged in large scale production with the aid of relatively modern plant and machinery worth lacs of rupees, and employ a large number of workers, need no such protection.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such is  the argument.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion the argument is untenable.
RatioOfTheDecision	The legislature has in terms encompassed '<NAME>' within the definition of section 2(a) of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	And the term 'khandsari' is sufficiently wide to cover all varieties of <NAME> including the article produced by the factories like those of the petitioners.
RatioOfTheDecision	Besides, the basic premise assured by the petitioners that the object of the Act is merely to protect the producers from exploitation is fallacious.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course, one of the main objects of the Act is to protect the producers from being cheated by unscrupulous traders in the matter of price, weight, payment, unlawful market charges etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	and to render them immune from exploitation as indicated by the 'prefatory note' and by the provisions contained in sections 16(i) , (ii), (iii), (iv),  (viii) etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	While this is one of the objects of the Act, it is not the sole or only object of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act has many more objects and a much wider perspective such as development of new market areas, efficient co llection of data, and processing of arrivals in Mandis with a view to enable <ORG> to give substantial economic assistance to establish various markets in Uttar Pradesh, as also protection of consumers and even traders from being exploited in the matter of quality, weight and price This needs no elaboration in view of the pronouncements of this <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	For instance in <CITATION_631739> .
RatioOfTheDecision	(1) this <ORG> has observed thus:-  "The long title of the Act in indicates that it is an Act "to provide for the regulation of sale and purchase of agricultural produce and for the establishment, superintendence, and control of markets therefor in Uttar Pradesh."
RatioOfTheDecision	From the Objects and Reasons of the enactment it would appear that this Act was passed,for the development of new market areas and for efficient data collection and processing of arrivals in the Mandis to enable <ORG> to give a substantial help for the establishment of ' various markets in the state of Uttar Pradesh.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other States the Act is mainly  meant to protect an agriculturist producer from being exploited when he comes to the Mandis for selling his agricultural produce.
RatioOfTheDecision	As pointed out by <ORG> certain other transactions also have been roped in the levy of the fee, in which both sides are traders and neither side is an agriculturist.
RatioOfTheDecision	This has been done for the effec-  (1) [1980] 3 S.C.R.
RatioOfTheDecision	104 tive implementation of the scheme of establishment of markets mainly for the benefit of the producers. "
RatioOfTheDecision	And in <NAME> & Ors v. <ORG> & Ors.
RatioOfTheDecision	etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	(1) it has been stated that:-  "It is true that one of the principal objects sought to be achieved by the Act is the securing of a fair price to the agriculturist for his produce, by the elimination of middle men and other detracting factors.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, it would be wholly incorrect to say that the only object of the ,Act is to secure a fair price to the agriculturist.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the long title of the Act itself says, the Act is intended to regulate the marketing of agricultur al and certain other produce.
RatioOfTheDecision	The marketing of agricultural produce is not confined to the first transaction of sale by the producer to the trader but must necessarily include all subsequent transactions in the course of the movement of the commodity into the ultimate hands of the consumer, 80 long, of course, as the commodity retains its original character as agricultural produce.
RatioOfTheDecision	While middlemen are sought to be eliminated, it is wrong to view the Act as one aimed at legitimate and genuine traders.
RatioOfTheDecision	Far from it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The regulation and control order is as much for their- benefit as it is t`or the benefit of the producer and the ultimate consumer.
RatioOfTheDecision	The elimination of middlemen is as much in the interest of the trader as it is in the interest of the producer.
RatioOfTheDecision	Promotion of grading and standardisation of agricultural produce is as much to his benefit as to the benefit of the producer or consumer.
RatioOfTheDecision	So also proper weighment.
RatioOfTheDecision	The provision for settlement of disputes arising out of transactions connected with the marketing  of agricultural produce and ancillary matters is also for the benefit of the trader.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is because of these and various other services performed by <ORG> for the benefit of the trader that the trader is required to pay a fee.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, therefore, clear that the regulation of marketing contemplated by the Act involves benefits too traders to in a large way.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also clear to our mind that the regulation of marketing of agricultural produce, if confined to the sales by producers within the market area to traders, will very soon lead to its circum-  (1) 11981] 2 S.C.R.
RatioOfTheDecision	866 vention in the guise of sales by traders to traders or import of agricultural produce from outside the market area to within the market area."
RatioOfTheDecision	In the face of these pronouncements it cannot be success fully urged that the object of the Act is merely to protect the producer from exploitation.
RatioOfTheDecision	As pointed out in the aforesaid decisions, while the analogous Acts in other States had a limited perspective, so far as Uttar Pradesh is c oncerned, the Act has a much wider horizon, and even transactions where both the sides are traders and neither side is an agriculturist, are brought within the coverage of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is, therefore, no merit in this nuance of the challenge.
RatioOfTheDecision	The petitioners have next contended that having regard to the definition of 'Producer' contained in section 2(p) of the Act, this Act could not have been intended to cover the article produced by them We do not see anything in the definition which would justify overriding the clear language of the statute read in the l) light of the perspective of the Act and the history of the levy.
RatioOfTheDecision	While the term 'Khandsari' has not been defined it is obviously wide enough to cover Khandsari produced by any process regardless of its quality or variety As discussed earlier, one of the objects of the Act inter alia is to protect the consumer as also the trader.
RatioOfTheDecision	We need not reiterate the reasoning articulated by us a moment ago in dealing with the first facet of this argument.
RatioOfTheDecision	The argum ent based on the supposed intendment of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	in our opinion, is wholly misconceived.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have, therefore, no hesitation in repelling this contention Lastly section 2(a) of the Act has been challenged on the ground that it is discriminatory and violative of Art.
Argument	14 They have contended that section 2(a) of the Act, in so far as it includes <ORG> in the definition of agricultural produce and thereby subjects the trade in the said product to regulation under the relevant provision of the Act is ultra vires Art 14 of the Constitution of India inasmuch as it introduces a hostile discrimination.
Argument	According to the petitioners, the article produced by them, which they call <ORG> sugar, is almost indistinguishable from the plantation sugar mills.
Argument	Whether the article produced by the petitioners is very much similar to plantation sugar or not is a moot question.
Argument	The other side has controverted this averment.
RatioOfTheDecision	The process of manufacture is different.
RatioOfTheDecision	The market price of <ORG> is lower depending on the quality .
RatioOfTheDecision	995  The most inferior variety would be more like the Khandsari A produced by the indigenous process (yellowish in colour and powdery in form) and would fetch a lesser price in the market.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would appear from the affidavit that the most superior variety might perhaps be approximate in appearance to the plantation sugar manufactured by the sugar mills but would all the same fetch a somewhat lesser price than the price fetched by plantation sugar It is a different commercial product known by a different name in the trade Be that as it may, the argument that unless both are regulated under the Act Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	14 would be offended, is meritless.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG> has had several occasions to deal with a similar problem in the context of taxing statutes And this <ORG> has consistently taken the view that is the matter of classification the <ORG> has a wide discretion in selecting the persons or objects it will tax, and that a statute is not open to attack on the ground that it taxes some persons or objects and not oth ers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Everything-or- nothing argument is basically fallacious.
RatioOfTheDecision	For, the <ORG> may tax or regulate the trade in some objects and not in others Or may bring within its net some objects initially and may cast the net wider later on Or may tax or regulate the trade in only such objects which it considers expedient or worthwhile.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision, essentially a policy decision, may depend on several factors.
RatioOfTheDecision	Factors, such as, the felt necessity for such an impost or regulation of a trade in a particular article, likely impact of the decision on the trade, industry, or consumer, viability of the same from the stand point of its own management resources Or from the angle of the net advantage to be secured in the balance sheet of pros and cons taking into account the anticipated administrative and management inputs required to be invested in the exercise.
RatioOfTheDecision	In substance, it is a policy decision turning on numerous and complex factors.
Precedent	<CITATION_494408> (t) this <ORG> has quoted with approval the following passage from  <NAME> on Constitutional Law(2):  "A <ORG> does not have to tax everything in order to tax something.
Precedent	It is allowed to pick and choose districts, objects, persons, methods and even rates for taxation if it does so reasonable ....
Precedent	The Supreme (1) [1963] 1 S.C.R- 404 (2) <NAME> on Constitutional Law p. 857 <ORG> has been practical and has permitted a very wide latitude- In classification for taxation."
RatioOfTheDecision	And this <ORG> has turned down the plea that in order to respect Art 14, both varieties of tobacco (Virginia tobacco on the one hand and country tobacco on the other) must be taxed or none.
RatioOfTheDecision	says the <ORG>:  "if a <ORG> can validly pick and choose one commodity for taxation and that is not open to attack under Article 14 the same result must follow when the <ORG> picks up one category of goods and subjects it to taxation."
RatioOfTheDecision	In the matter of market regulation also <ORG> and <ORG> sugar are governed by different regulations As a matter of fact mill sugar is subject to control and regulation of no mean order unde r Sugar (Control) Order of 1966 where under the sugar mills are obliged to make available a significant quantity of sugar by way of levy at stipulated prices which are very much lower than prevailing open market prices <ORG>' produced by the petitioners was not subject to similar control, for all these years.
RatioOfTheDecision	The producers of <ORG> like petitioners, it is obvious have benefited thereby.
RatioOfTheDecision	It 15 true than for a short period <ORG> was also subjected to levy under <ORG> Sugar (Levy) Order of 1981 on a relatively small portion of its production That however makes little difference from the standpoint of challenge to section 2(a) of the Act on the ground that <ORG> sugar is not included in the definition of 'agricultural produce and not subjected to the provisions of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	So also the mere fact that both are sweetening agents will not justify condemnation of the classification which is based on a totality of the factors of differentiation There is therefore no substance in the challenge from the st andpoint of Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	14 of the Constitution of India.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not for this <ORG> to question why <NAME> produced by the petitioners is Included when sugar produced by the <ORG> Is not so included.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not a question to which we can legitimately address ourselves, for, essentially it is a question of legislative wisdom and legislative policy dictated by countless and complex considerations.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> cannot, and will not, substitute its own wisdom in place of the legislative wisdom in such matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> will not impose on itself this responsibility, if not for any A other reason, than for the reason that it is beyond its province, The arguments advanced on this wavelength need not, therefore, detain us any a longer.
RulingByPresentCourt	The petitions, accordingly, fail.
RulingByPresentCourt	Rule issued in each of the petitions will stand discharged There will be no order regarding costs.
RulingByPresentCourt	Interim orders will stand vacated.
RulingByPresentCourt	In view of the majority decision, all the writ petitions are dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	There will be no order regarding costs.
RulingByPresentCourt	Interim order s will stand vacated.
RulingByPresentCourt	<NAME> dismissed
