Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> AND ANOTHER Vs. RESPONDENT: THE STATE OF DELHI.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 26/05/1950 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>: <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, B.K.
Fact	CITATION: 1950 AIR 129 1950 SCR 605 CITATOR INFO : R 1951 SC 270 (4) RF 1952 SC 329 (3,4) RF 1957 SC 620 (3,5,7) RF 1958 SC 578 (129,151) F 1959 SC 395 (13,40) R 1960 SC 633 (9) RF 1962 SC 305 (25) R 1962 SC 955 (21) MV 1966 SC 740 (48) RF 1967 SC1643 (227) RF 1971 SC2486 (8,13,14) E 1973 SC 106 (16) RF 1986 SC 515 (22,24,33,97) RF 1989 SC 190 (11) ACT: Constitution of India, Art.
Fact	19 , cls.
Fact	(1) (a) and (2)--Fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression--Law imposing pre-censorship on newspapers for securing public safety and preventing public disorder--Validity--Matter disturbing public safety or causing public disorder, whether "undermines the security of, or tends to over* throw, the State"--Scope of Art.
Fact	19 , cl.
Fact	(2)--East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949 , sec.
Fact	7 (1) (c)--Validity.
Fact	HEADNOTE: Section 7 (1) (c) of the East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949, as extended to the Province of Delhi provided that "<ORG> or any authority authorised by it in this behalf, if satisfied that such action is necessary for preventing or combating any activity prejudicial to the public safety or the maintenance of public order may, by order in writing addressed to a a printer, publisher or editor require that any matter relating to a 606 particular subject or class of subjects shall before publi- cation be submitted for scrutiny."
Fact	Held per <NAME> <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> ALI J. dissenting) that inasmuch as s. 7 (1) (c) authorised the imposition of restrictions on the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by art.
Fact	19 (1.)
Fact	(a) of the Consti- tution for the purpose of preventing activities prejudicial to public safety and maintenance of public order, it was not a law relating to "a matter  which undermines the security of or tends to overthrow, the <ORG>" within the meaning of the saving provisions contained in cl.
Fact	(9.)
Fact	of art.
Fact	19 and was therefore unconstitutional and void.
Fact	<NAME> v. The <ORG> ( S.C.R.
Fact	594) followed.
Fact	Per <NAME> The expression "public safety" has, as a result of a long course of legislative practice acquired a well-recognised meaning and may be taken to denote safety or security of the <ORG>; and, though the expression "public order" is wide enough to cover small disturbances of the peace which do not jeopardise the security of the <ORG> yet, prominence given in the Act to public safety, the fact that the Act is a piece of special legislation providing for special measures and the aim and scope of the Act in gener- al, show that preservation of public safety is the dominant purpose of the Act, and "public order" may well be para- phrased in the context as "public tranquillity".
Fact	Public disorders which disturb the public tranquillity do undermine the security of th e State and as s. 7 (1) (c) of the im- pugned Act is aimed at preventing such disorders it is difficult to hold that it falls outside the ambit of art.
Fact	19 (2) of the Constitution.
Fact	Held by <ORG> imposition of pre-censor- ship on a journal is a restriction on the liberty of the press which is an essential part of the right to freedom of speech and expression declared by art.
Fact	19 (1)(a).
Argument	Black- stone's Commentaries referred to.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No.
Fact	XXIX of 1950.
Fact	Application under article 32 of the Constitution of India for a writ of certiorari and prohibition.
Fact	The facts are stated in the judgment.
Fact	<NAME> (<NAME>, with him) for the petition- er.
Fact	<NAME>, Attorney-General for India, (<NAME>, with him) for the respondent.
Fact	1950.
Fact	May 26.
Fact	The judgment of <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> was deliv- ered by <NAME> J.  Fazl Ali J. delivered a separate dissenting judgment, <NAME> is an app lication under arti- cle 32 of the Constitution praying for the issue of writs of certiorari and prohibition to the respondent, the Chief Commissioner of Delhi, with a view to examine the legality of and quash the order made by him in regard to an English weekly of Delhi called the <ORG> of which the first applicant is the printer and publisher, and the second is the editor.
Fact	On 2nd March, 1950, the respondent, in exercise of powers conferred on him by section 7 (1) (c) of the East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949, which has been extended to the Delhi Province and is hereinafter referred to as the impugned Act, issued the following order:  "Whereas the Chief Commissioner, Delhi, is satisfied that <ORG>, an English weekly of Delhi, has been pub- lishing highly objectionable matter constituting a threat to public law and order and that action as is hereinafter mentioned is necessary for the purpose of preventing or combating activities prejudicial to the public safety or the maintenance of public order.
Fact	N ow there more in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 (1)(c) of the East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949, as extended to the Delhi Province, I, <NAME>, Chief Commissioner, Delhi, do by this order require you <NAME>, Printer and Publisher and <NAME>, Editor of the aforesaid paper to submit for scrutiny, in duplicate, before publication, till further orders, all communal matter and news and views about Pakistan including photographs and cartoons other than those derived from official sources or supplied by the news agencies, viz., <ORG>, <ORG> and <ORG> to the Provincial Press Officer, or in his absence, to Superintend- ent of Press Branch at his office at 5, Alipur Road, Civil Lines, Delhi, between the hours 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on work- ing days."
Fact	The only point argued before us relates to the consti- tutional validity of section 7 (1) (c) of the impugned Act which, as appears from its preamble, was passed "to provide specia l measures to ensure public safety and maintenance of public order."
Statute	Section 7 (1) (c) under which the aforesaid order purports to have been made reads (so far as material here) as follows :--  "<ORG> or any authority authorised by it in this behalf if satisfied that such action is neces- sary for the purpose of preventing or combating any activity prejudicial to the public safety or the maintenance of public order may, by order in writing addressed to a print- er, publisher or editor require that any matter relating to a particular subject or class of subjects shall before publication be submitted for scrutiny."
Argument	The petitioners claim that this provision infringes the fundamental right to the freedom of speech and expression conferred upon them by article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitu- tion inasmuch as it authorises the imposition of a restric- tion on the publication of the journal which is not justi- fied under clause (2) of that article.
Argument	There can be little doubt that the imposition of p recen- sorship on a journal is a restriction on the liberty of the press which is an essential part of the right to freedom of speech and expression declared by article 19 (1)(a).
RatioOfTheDecision	As pointed out by <NAME> in his Commentaries "the liberty of the press consists in laying no previous restraint upon publications, and not in freedom from censure for criminal matter when published.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every freeman has an undoubted right to lay what sentiments he pleases before the public; to forbid this, is to destroy the freedom of the press(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	The only question therefore is whether section 7 (1)(c) which authorises the imposition-of such a restriction falls within the reservation of clause (2) of article 19.
RatioOfTheDecision	As this question turns on considerations which are essentially the same as those on which our decision in Petition No.
Precedent	XVI of 1950(2) was based, our judgment in that case concludes the present case also.
Precedent	Accordingly, for the reasons indicated in that judgment, we allow this petition and hereby quash the impugned order of t he Chief Commission- er, Delhi, dated the 2nd March, 1950.
Precedent	(1) Blackstone's Commentaries, Vol.
Precedent	IV, pp.
Precedent	151, 152.
Precedent	(2) <NAME> v. The State of Madras, supra p. 594.
Precedent	609  FAZL ALI J.--The question raised in this case relates to the validity of 'section 7 (1) (c) of the East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949 (as extended to the Province of Delhi), which runs as follows :-  "The Provincial Government or any authority authorised by it in this behalf if satisfied that such action is neces- sary for the purpose of preventing or combating any activity prejudicial to the public safety or the maintenance of public order, may, by order in writing addressed to a print- er, publisher or editor--  * * * *  (c) require that any matter relating to a particular subject or class of subjects shall before publication be submitted for scrutiny;"  It should be noted that the provisions of sub-clause (c) arc not in general terms but are confined to a "particular subject or class of subjects," and that having regard to the cont ext in which these words are used, they must be connect- ed with "public safety or the maintenance of public order."
Argument	The petitioners, on whose behalf this provision is assailed, are respectively the printer (and publisher) and editor of an English weekly of Delhi called <ORG>, and they pray for the issue of writs of certiorari and prohibi- tion to the Chief Commissioner, Delhi, with a view' 'to examine and review the legality" of and "restrain the operation" of and "quash" the order made by him on the 2nd March, 1950, under the impugned section, directing them "to submit for scrutiny, in duplicate, before publication, till further orders, all communal matter and news and views about Pakistan including photographs and cartoons other than those derived from official sources or supplied by the news agencies..." The order in question recites among other things that the Chief Commissioner is satisfied that the <ORG> has been publishing highly objectionable matter constituting a threat to public law and or der and that action to which reference has been made is necessary for the purpose of preventing or combating activities prejudicial to the public safety or the maintenance of public order.
Argument	It is contended on behalf of the petitioners that notwithstanding these recitals the order complained against is liable to be quashed, because it amounts to an infringement of the right of freedom of speech and expres- sion guaranteed by article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution.
Argument	Articles 19 (1) (a) and (2), which are to be read together, run as follows :-  19, (1) All citizens shall have the right  (a) to freedom of speech and expression;  * * * * (2) Nothing in sub-clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it relates to, or prevent the <ORG> from making any law relating to, libel, slander, defamation, contempt of Court or any matter which offends against decency or morality or which under- mines the security of, or tends to overthrow, the <ORG>."
Argument	It is contended that section 7 (1)( c) of the Act, under which the impugned order has been made, cannot be saved by clause (2) of article 19 of the Constitution, because it does not relate to any matter which undermines the security of, or tends to overthrow, the <ORG>.
Argument	Thus the main ground of attack is that the impugned law is an infringement of a fundamental right and is not saved by the so-called saving clause to which reference has been made.
RatioOfTheDecision	There can be no doubt that to impose pre-censorship on a journal, such as has been ordered by the Chief Commissioner in this case, is a restriction on the liberty of the press which is included in the right to freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitu- tion, and the only question which we have therefore to decide is whether clause (2) of article 19 stands in the way of the petitioners.
RatioOfTheDecision	The East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949, of which sec- tion 7 is a part, was passed by <ORG> in exercise of the power conferred upon it by section 100 of the  Government of India Act, 1935, is read with Entry 1 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to that Act, which includes among other matters "public order."
RatioOfTheDecision	This expression in the general sense may be construed to have reference to the maintenance of what is generally known as law and order in the Province, and this is confirmed by the words which follow it in Entry 1 of List II and which have been put within brackets, viz., "but not including the use of naval, military or air forces or any other armed forces of the <ORG> in aid of the civil power."
RatioOfTheDecision	It is clear that anything which affects public tranquillity within the <ORG> or the Province will also affect public order and the <ORG> Legislature is therefore competent to frame laws on matters relating to public tranquillity and public order.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was not disputed that under the Government of India Act, 1935 (under, which the impugned Act was passed) it was the responsibility of each Province to deal with all internal disorders whatever their magnitude may be and to  preserve public tranquillity and order within the Province.
RatioOfTheDecision	At this stage, it will be convenient to consider the meaning of another expression "public safety" which is used throughout the impugned Act and which is also chosen by its framers for its title.
Precedent	This expression, though it has been variously used in different contexts (see the Indian Penal Code , Ch.
Precedent	XIV), has now acquired a well-recognized meaning in relation to an Act like the impugned Act, as a result of a long course of legislative practice, and may be taken to denote safety or security of the <ORG>.
Precedent	In this sense, it was used in the Defence of the Realm (Consolidation) Act, 1914, as well as the Defence of India Act.
Precedent	and this is how it was judicially interpreted in <NAME> v. Governor of Wormwood Scrubbs Prison(1).
Precedent	The headnote of this case runs as follows "By section 1 of the Defence of the Realm (Consolidation) Act, 1914, power was given to <NAME> 'during the continuance of the present war to issue regula- tions ...... for securing  the public safety and the de- fence of the realm' :--  (1) [1920] 2 K.B.
Precedent	305.
Precedent	612  Held, that the regulations thereby authorized were not limited to regulations for the protection of the country against foreign enemies, but included regulations designed for the prevention of internal disorder and rebellion "  Thus 'public order' and 'public safety' are allied matters, but, in order to appreciate how they stand in relation to each other, it seems best to direct our atten- tion to the opposite concepts which we may, for convenience of reference, respectively label as 'public disorder' and 'public unsafety'.
RatioOfTheDecision	If 'public safety' is, as we have seen, equivalent to 'security of the State', what I have designat- ed as public unsafety may be regarded as equivalent to 'insecurity of the State'.
RatioOfTheDecision	When we approach the matter in this way, we find that while 'public disorder' iS wide enough to cover a small riot or an affray and other cases where peace is disturbed by, or affects, a small group of persons, 'public unsafety ' (or insecurity of the <ORG>), will usually be connected with serious internal disorders and such disturbances of public tranquillity as jeopardize the security of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In order to understand the scope of the Act, it will be necessary to note that in the Act "maintenance of public order" always occurs in juxtaposition with "public safety", and the Act itself is called "The East Punjab Public Safety Act."
RatioOfTheDecision	The prominence thus given to 'public safety' strongly suggests that the Act was intended to deal with serious cases of public disorder which affect public safety or the security of the <ORG>, or cases in which, owing to some kind of emergency or a grave situation having arisen, even public disorders of comparatively small dimensions may have far- reaching effects on the security of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is to be noted that the Act purports to provide "special measures to ensure public safety and maintenance of public order."
RatioOfTheDecision	The words "special measures" are rather important, because they show that the Act was  not intended for ordinary cases or ordinary situations.
RatioOfTheDecision	The ordinary cases are provided for by the Penal Code and other existing laws, and with these the Act which purports to be of a temporary Act is not apparently concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is concerned with special measures which would presumably be required for special cases or special situations.
RatioOfTheDecision	Once this important fact is grasped and the Act is viewed in the proper perspective, much of the confusion which has been created in the course of the arguments will disappear.
RatioOfTheDecision	The line of argument advanced on behalf of the petitioners is that since the Act has been passed in exercise of the power granted by the expression "public order," used in the Government of India Act, which is a general term of wide import, and since it purports to provide for the maintenance of public order, its provisions are intended or are liable to be used for all cases of breaches of public order, be they small or insig- nificant breaches or those of a grave or serious nature.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is, in my op inion, approaching the case from a wrong angle.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act is a piece of special legislation providing for special measures and the central idea dominating it is public safety and maintenance of public order in a situation requiring special measures.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was argued that "public safety" and "maintenance of public order" are used in the Act disjunctively and they are separated by the word "or" and not "and," and therefore we cannot rule out the possibility of the Act providing for ordinary as well as serious cases of disturbance of public order and tranquillity.
RatioOfTheDecision	This, as I have already indicated, is a somewhat narrow and technical approach to the question.
RatioOfTheDecision	In construing the Act, we must try to get at its aim and purpose, and before the Act is declared to be invalid, we must see whether it is capable of being so construed as to bear a reasonable meaning consistent with its validity.
RatioOfTheDecision	We therefore cannot ignore the fact that preservation of public safety is the dominant purpose of the Act and that it is a special Act  providing for special measures and therefore it should not be confused with an Act which is applicable to ordinary situations and to any and every trivial case of breach of public order, In my opinion, the word "or" is used here not so much to separate two wholly different concepts as to show that they are closely allied concepts and can be used almost inter- changeably in the context.
RatioOfTheDecision	I think that "public order" may well be paraphrased in the context as public tranquillity and the words "public safety" and "public order" may be read as equivalent to "security of the <ORG>" and "public tran- quillity."
RatioOfTheDecision	I will now advert once more to clause (2) of article 19 and state what I consider to be the reason for inserting in it the words "matter which undermines the security of, or tends to overthrow, the <ORG>."
Precedent	It is well recognized in all systems of law that the right to freedom of speech and expression or freedom of the press means that any person may write or say what he pleases so long as he does not infringe  the law relating to libel or slander or to blasphemous, obscene or seditious words or writings: (see Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edition, Vol.
Precedent	II, page 391).
Precedent	This is prac- tically what has been said in clause (2) of article 19 , with this difference only that instead of using the words "law relating to sedition," the framers of the Constitution have used the words mentioned above.
Precedent	It is interesting to note that sedition was mentioned in the original draft of the Constitution, but subsequently that word was dropped and the words which I have quoted were inserted.
Precedent	I think it is not difficult to discover the reason for this change and I shall briefly state in my own words what I consider it to be.
Precedent	The latest pronouncement by the highest Indian tribunal as to the law of sedition is to be found in <NAME> v. The King(1) which has been quoted again and again and in which <NAME> laid down that public disor- der, or the reasonable anticipation or likelihood of public disorder, is the gist of  the offence of sedition and "the acts or words complained of must either incite to disorder or (1) [1942] F.C.R.
Precedent	38.
Precedent	615  must be such as to satisfy reasonable men that is their intention or tendency."
Precedent	For this view, the learned Chief Justice relied on certain observations of <NAME> in R.v.
Precedent	Sullivan (1), and he also added that he was content to adopt "the words of that learned Judge which are to be found in every book dealing with this branch of the criminal law."
Precedent	There is no doubt that what <NAME> has stated in that case represents the view of a number of Judges and authors and was also the view of Sir <NAME> in regard to whom <NAME> in his charge to the jury in a case relating to the law of sedition <NAME>.
Precedent	v. Burns(2) said :--  "The law upon the question of what is seditious and what is not is to be found stated very clearly in a book by <NAME> who has undoubtedly a greater knowledge of crimi- nal law than any other Judge who sits upon the Bench, and what he has said upon the subject of  sedition was submitted to the other Judges, who sometime back were engaged with him in drafting a criminal code, and upon their report the Commissioners say that his statement of law appears to them to be stated accurately as it exists at present."
Precedent	The decision of <NAME> held the field for several years until <ORG>, dealing with a case under the Defence of India Rules, expressed the view in <CITATION_748350> (3) that the test laid down by the learned Chief Justice was not applicable in India where the offence under section 124A of the Indian Penal Code should be construed with reference to the words used in that section.
Precedent	They also added :--  "The word 'sedition' does not occur either in section 124A or in the Rule; it is only found as a marginal note to section 124A , and is not an operative part of the section, but merely provides the name by which the crime defined in the section will be known.
Precedent	(1) [1868] 11 Cox c.c.
Precedent	44.
Precedent	(2) [1886] 16 cox 855.
Precedent	(8) 74 I.A.
Precedent	616  There can be no justificati on for restricting the contents of the section by the marginal note.
Precedent	In England there is no statutory definition of sedition; its meaning and content have been laid down in many decisions, some of which are referred to by the Chief Justice, but these decisions are not relevant when you have a statutory definition of that which is termed sedition as we have in the present case.
Precedent	Their Lordships are unable to find anything in the language of either section 124A or the Rule which could suggest that 'the acts or words complained of must either incite to disorder or must be such as to satisfy reasonable men that this is their intention or tendency."
RatioOfTheDecision	The framers of the Constitution must have therefore found themselves face to face with the dilemma as to whether the word "sedition" should be used in article 19 (2) and if it was to be used in what sense it was to be used.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the one hand, they must have had before their mind the very widely accepted view supported by numerous authorities that sedition was essentially  an offence against public tranquil- lity and was connected in some way or other with public disorder; and, on the other hand, there was the pronounce- ment of <ORG> that sedition as defined in the Indian Penal Code did not necessarily imply any inten- tion or tendency to incite disorder.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances, it is not surprising that they decided not to use the word "sedition" in clause (2) but used the more general words which cover sedition and everything else which makes sedi- tion such a serious offence.
RatioOfTheDecision	That sedition does undermine the security of the <ORG> is a matter which cannot admit of much doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	That it undermines the security of the <ORG> usually through the medium of public disorder is also a matter on which eminent Judges and jurists are agreed.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore it is difficult to hold that public disorder or disturbance of public tranquillity are not matters which undermine the security of the <ORG>.
Precedent	617  It will not be out of place to quote here the following passage from <NAME> <NAME>'s Criminal Law of England (Vol.
Precedent	II, pp.
RatioOfTheDecision	242 and 243) :--  "It oft<NAME> happ<NAME>s, however, that the public peace is disturbed by off<NAME>ces which without t<NAME>ding to the subver- sion of the existing political constitution practically subvert the authority of the Governm<NAME>t over a greater or less local area for a longer or shorter time.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Bristol riots in 1832 and the <NAME> riots in 1780 are instances of this kind.
RatioOfTheDecision	No definite line can be drawn betwe<NAME> insur- rections of this sort, ordinary riots, and unlawful assem- blies.
RatioOfTheDecision	The differ<NAME>ce betwe<NAME> a meeting stormy <NAME>ough to cause well-founded fear of a breach of the peace, and a civil war the result of which may determine the course of a nation's history for c<NAME>turies, is a differ<NAME>ce of degree.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unlawful assemblies, riots, insurrections, rebellions, levying of war, are off<NAME>ces which run into each other, and are not capable of being marked off by perfectly definite boundaries, All of them have in common one feature, namely, that the normal tranquillity of a civil ised society is in each of the cases mentioned disturbed either by actual force or at least by the show and threat of it.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another class of offences against public tranquillity are those in which no actual force is either employed or displayed, but in which steps are taken tending to cause it.
RatioOfTheDecision	These are the formation of secret societies, seditious conspiracies, libels or words spoken.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under these two heads all offences against the internal public tranquillity of the <ORG> may be arranged."
RatioOfTheDecision	This passage brings out two matters with remarkable clarity.
RatioOfTheDecision	It shows firstly that sedition is essentially an offence against public tranquillity and secondly that broadly speaking there are two classes of offences against public tranquillity: (a) those accompanied by violence including disorders which affect tranquillity of a considerable number of persons or an extensive local area, and (b) those not accompanied by violence but tending to cause it, such as seditious utter- ances, seditious conspiracies, etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	Both these  classes of offences are such as will undermine the security of the <ORG> or tend to overthrow it if left unchecked, and, as I have tried to point out, there is a good deal of authorita- tive opinion in favour of the view that the gravity ascribed to sedition is due to the fact that it tends to seriously affect the tranquillity and security of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In principle, then, it would not have been logical to refer to sedition in clause (2) of article 19 and omit matters which are no less grave and which have equal potentiality for undermining the security of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears that the framers of the Constitution preferred to adopt the logical course and have used the more general and basic words which are apt to cover sedition as well as other matters which are as detrimental to the security of the <ORG> as sedition.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the Act is to be viewed as I have suggested, it is difficult to hold that section 7 (1) (c) falls outside the ambit of article 19 (2).
RatioOfTheDecision	That clause clearly states that nothing in clause (1) ( a) shall affect the operation of any existing law relating to any matter which undermines the security of, or tends to overthrow, the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	I have tried to show that public disorders and disturbance of public tranquillity do undermine the security of the <ORG> and if the Act is a law aimed at preventing such disorders, it fulfils the requirement of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is needless to add that the word "<ORG>" has been defined in article 12 of the Constitution to include "the Government and Parlia- ment of India and the Government and <ORG> of each of the <ORG>s and all local or other authorities within the territory of India or under the control of <ORG>."
RatioOfTheDecision	I find that section 20 of the impugned Act provides that <ORG> may by notification declare that the whole or any part of the Province as may be specified in the notification is a dangerously disturbed area.
RatioOfTheDecision	This provision has some bearing on the aim and object of the Act, and we cannot overlook it when consideri ng its scope.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be incidentally mentioned that we have been informed that, under this section, Delhi Province has been notified to be a "dangerously disturbed area."
RatioOfTheDecision	It must be recognized that freedom of speech and expres- sion is one of the most valuable rights guaranteed to a citizen by the Constitution and should be jealously guard- ed by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must also be recognised that free political discussion is essential for the proper functioning of a democratic government, and the tendency of modern jurists is to deprecate censorship though they all agree that "liberty of the press" is not to be confused with its "licentiousness."
RatioOfTheDecision	But the Constitution itself has pre- scribed certain limits for the exercise of the freedom of speech and expression and this <ORG> is only called upon to see whether a particular case comes within those limits.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my opinion, the law which is impugned is fully saved by article 19 (2) and if it cannot be successfully assailed it is not possible to grant the remedy which th e petitioners are seeking here.
RatioOfTheDecision	As has been stated already, the order which is impugned in this case recites that the weekly <ORG> has been publishing highly objectionable matter constituting a threat to public law and order" and that the action which it is proposed to take against the petitioners "is necessary for the purpose of preventing or combating activities prejudi- cial to public safety or the maintenance of public order."
RatioOfTheDecision	These facts are supported by an affidavit sworn by the Home Secretary to the Chief Commissioner, who also states among other things that the order in question was passed by the Chief Commissioner in consultation with <ORG>, which is an independent body elected by <ORG> and is composed of representatives of some of the leading papers such as <ORG>, <ORG>, etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my opinion, there can be no doubt that the Chief Commissioner has purported to act in this case within the sphere within which he is  permitted to act under the law, and it is beyond the power of this <ORG> to grant the reliefs claimed by the petitioners.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances, I would dismiss the petitioners' application.
Precedent	Petition allowed.
Precedent	Agent for the petitioners: <NAME>.
Precedent	Agent for the respondent: <NAME>.
Precedent	621
