Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	In this batch of writ applications the petitioners challenge the vires of the Orissa Cess Act, 1962 in so far as it purported to levy cess on lands held for carrying on mining operations and seek mandamus for quashing the demands raised against them and the proceedings taken for recovery of the demands.
Fact	2.
Fact	The Orissa Cess Act, 1962 (hereinafter called 'the Cess Act ') was enacted, by <ORG> with a view to consolidating and amending the law relating to cess in the State of Orissa.
Fact	It got the assent of the Governor on.
Fact	3-5-1962 and came into force with effect from 1-4-1963.
Fact	The statement of objects and reasons indicated that the assessment and levy of cess were being made "under the various statutes and also in accordance with various local usages and customs which differ from district to district.
Fact	This makes their administration difficult and gives cause for complaint by the public due to lack of uniformity.
Statute	The present Bill is proposed to be enacted with th e primary Objective of condensing and simplifying the existing laws on the subject by consolidating the different enactments, customs and usages having force of law in the State and also to amend the same in such matters where they are found to be defective and deficient."
Statute	Its object was to have a uniform rate throughout the State.
Statute	By Section 2 , the enactments which were specified, in the first column of the Schedule were repealed to the extent mentioned therein that is to say, the provisions therein relating to assessment and levy of cess ceased to be in force on and from the date the Cess Act came into force.
Statute	Section 3 defined certain expressions used in the Cess.
Statute	Act, The expression 'land' was defined, as meaning "lands of whatever description arid includes land which is covered with water, but does not include houses or buildings".
Statute	Chapter II related to imposition and application of the cess and contained the crucial provisions.
Statute	Section 4 was the charging section and read as hereunder:--  "4.
Statute	All lands t o be liable to payment of cess-  (1) From and after the commencement of this Act all lands shall be liable to the payment of cess determined and payable as herein provided :  XXX xxx xxx."
Statute	Section 5 prescribed the rate of cess and the manner of assessment, fixation of cess year and was as follows:-- "5.
Statute	Rate of cess, assessment of fixation of cess year- (1) The cess shall be assessed on the annual value of all lands on whatever tenure held calculated in the manner hereinafter appearing.
Statute	(2) The rate per year at which such cess shall be levied shall be- (a) one hundred per centum of the annual value in the case of lands held for carrying on mining operations; and (b) fifty per centum of the annual value in the case of other lands.
Statute	(3) <ORG>, shall by an order published in the <ORG>, fix the date from which cess leviable under this Act in any district or pan of a district shall take effect and may fix and from time to time alter the date from which the cess year shall run in any district or par t thereof."
Statute	Section 6 fixed the liability and read:-- "6.
Statute	Persons by whom cess payable--(1) Notwithstanding anything contained, in any other law the cess payable- (a) by a raiyat for the lands he holds and shall be paid by him to the landlord immediately under whom he holds the land; (b) by an intermediary in respect of his estate and such cess together with the amount payable to him as cess by intermediaries subordinate to him and the raiyats holding under him shall be paid by him to the intermediary immediately superior to him or to the <ORG>, as the case may be; (c) by a person for the lands he holds for carrying on mining operations and shall be paid by him to the <ORG>; Explanation --For the purpose of Clause (a) 'landlord' shall include the <ORG>; (2) Cess shall be paid on such dates and in such manner as may be prescribed."
Statute	Section 7 prescribed as to how the annual value referred to in Section 5 would be calculated.
Statute	Section authorised <ORG> to revise the amount calculate d to be the annual value by the Collector and provided that such revision would take effect from the beginning of such year as would be prescribed by <ORG>.
Statute	Section 9 authorised <ORG> to direct the Settlement Officer to make valuation for the purpose of assessment of cess while the record-of-rights for any area was being prepared or revised under any law, etc.
Statute	Section 10 provided that the cess collected would be credited to <ORG>, of the State and would be utilised in the manner stated in Clauses (a) and (b) thereof.
Statute	Section 11 provided that calculation of annual value of land and assessment of cess payable in respect thereof would be in accordance with such rules as might be prescribed.
Statute	Section 18 contained the provisions for appeals.
Statute	Section 19 conferred on <ORG> the power of revision.
Statute	Section 21 , authorised the Government to make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes of the Cess Act and in particular, in regard to matters expressly r equired or allowed by the Cess Act to be prescribed.
Statute	In pursuance of the said provision, the Orissa Cess Rules, 1963 were framed.
Statute	Rule 3 prescribed the date and manner of payment of cess.
Statute	Rule 4 laid down the procedure for revision of valuation.
Statute	Sections 8 , 9 , 18 and 19 were amended and a new section --S. 9-A was inserted and S. 11 was omitted by Orissa Act 10 of 1965.
Fact	The Orissa Cess (Amendment) Act, 1976 (Orissa Act 42 of 1976) was published in the <ORG> on 16-10 1976.
Fact	A new proviso was inserted after the existing proviso to Sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the principal Act and was to to the following effect:  "Provided further that nothing in the preceding proviso shall apply to lands held for carrying on mining operations".
Fact	In Section 6 of the Cess Act, a new clause was added as Clause (c) which read as follows:--  "(c) by a person for the lands he holds for carrying on mining operations and shall be paid by him to the Government."
Statute	A new sub-section was inserted in Section 7 of the Cess Act and wa s to the following effect:--  "(3).
Statute	In the case of lands held for, carrying on mining operations, the annual value shall be the royalty or, as the case may be, the dead rent payable by the person carrying on mining operation, to the Government."
Statute	A new section was inserted as Section 9-B which read: "9-B.
Statute	(1) The cess payable in respect of lands held for carrying on mining operations shall be assessed in the prescribed manner.
Fact	(2) Nothing contained in Sections 8 , 9 & 9-A shall apply in relation to the assessment of cess in respect of the aforesaid lands."
Fact	and Section 10 of the Cess Act providing for application of the proceeds of the cess was substituted.
Fact	In 1977, Orissa Ordinance 3 of 1977 was promulgated.
Fact	The first proviso to Section 4 , was substituted and the rate of cess contained in Section 5 prescribed as 25 per centum of the annual value of the lands was substituted by 50 per cent.
Fact	The Orissa Cess (Amendment) Act, 1978 (Orissa Act, 7 of 1978) repealed the Ordinance enacting in toto the provisions con tained therein.
Fact	3.
Fact	The petitioners hold mining leases granted by the State of Orissa under the provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act of 1987 (Central Act 67 of 1957) (hereinafter called 'the Central Act of 1957') read with the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 and are carrying on mining operations.
Argument	4.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, the learned Counsel who led the arguments on behalf of the petitioners, urged that:--  (a) the Cess Act in so far as it imposed cess on lands held for carrying on mining operations was unconstitutional, <ORG> lacking legislative competence; the field had been taken over by <ORG> by declaration in Section 2 of the Central Act of 1957 enacted in exercise of powers under Entry 54 of List I:  (b) the Cess Act in so far as it purported to levy cess was a piece of colourable legislation in effect, purpose and design; the <ORG> purporting to impose royalty under the garb of cess.
Argument	Alternatively, it was a tax on royalty.
Argument	The object of the legislat ion was totally different from what it ostensibly purported to be;  (c) the Cess Act was violative of Article 14 , of the Constitution of India in its hostile discrimination, unequal treatment;  (d) it also inhibited or impeded free flow of trade and commerce guaranteed under Article 301.
Argument	It was confiscatory and extortionate in nature, thereby infringing Articles 14 and 19(1)(f); and  (e) the impost of cess violated the condition contained in the mining leases--statutory lease--prescribed by the Cess Act and the Orissa Cess Rules.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> appearing for one of the petitioners took a different stand He urged that the initial object of the Cess Act was to levy a fee.
Argument	By amendment in 1976, the <ORG> purported to impose a tax and the imposition after the amendment of 1976 was, in fact a tax on royalty and he drew attention especially to the statement of objects and reasons of Orissa Act 42 of 1976.
Argument	In other respects, he adopted the submissions made by Mr. <NAME>.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, the learned co unsel appearing for another set of petitioners, urged that the Central Act of 1957 covered the entire field, relating to mines and mineral development including the fields of taxation and <ORG> had been denuded of any power to impose tax in respect of mines.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, the learned counsel for the petitioner in O.J.C.
Argument	No.
Argument	829 of 1979, urged that the cess is truly a royalty on minerals and no guidelines having been indicated in Section 9-B the provision was ultra vires by reason of abdication of the legislative power.
Argument	5.
Argument	Learned Advocate-General met the challenge contending that the enactment was referable to Entry 49 of the State-List in the 7th Schedule to the Constitution of India.
Argument	There was no encroachment on the legislative fields of the <ORG>.
Argument	The <ORG> was not competent to impose tax on lands held for carrying on mining operations.
Argument	He even went further and urged that the <ORG> was not competent to impose tax on mines.
Argument	He repelled the submissions that the Cess Act  infringed Article 14 , 19(1) (f) or (g) or Article 301 of the Constitution.
Argument	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	To understand fully the contentions raised by the parties, it is necessary to give a brief resume of the legislation relating to mines and minerals.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the Government of India Act, 1935 the subject of Mines arid Minerals was covered by Entry 36 of the <ORG> Legislative List I and Entry 23 of the provincial Legislative List II of the 7th Schedule Entry 36: Regulation of mines and oil fields and mineral development to which such regulation and development under a <ORG> control is declared by <ORG> law to be expedient in the public interest Entry 23: Regulation of mines and oil fields and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under <ORG> control.
Statute	The Entries have been kept intact in the Constitution and are as follows:--  Entry 54--List-I-  "Regulation of mines and minerals development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of  the <ORG> is declared by <ORG> by law to be expedient in the public interest."
Statute	"Entry 23--List II--"Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the <ORG>."
Statute	The only difference between the Entries of the 1935 Act and, the Constitution is in the deletion of 'oilfields' from the Entries and that the declaration must be made by <ORG>.
Statute	In 1948, <ORG> enacted the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act , 1948.
Statute	The said Act made provisions for regulation of mines and oilfields and for development of mines.
Statute	In 1957, the <ORG> enacted the Central Act of 1957.
Statute	It came into force on 1-6-1958.
Statute	It made an amendment in the 1948 Act so as to make the latter relate to oil fields only.
Statute	Section 2 contains the declaration:--  "It is hereby, declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the <ORG> should, take under its control the regulation of Mines and the development o f minerals to the extent hereinafter provided."
Statute	Section 4 of the Central Act of 1957 provides that no mining lease shall be granted after the commencement of the Act otherwise than in accordance with the rules made under the Act.
Statute	It also provides that no person shall undertake any prospecting, mining operations in an area except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of a prospecting licence or, as the case may be, a mining lease granted under the Act and the rules made thereunder.
Statute	By the proviso the rights existing prior to the commencement of the Act are not affected.
Statute	Section 5 of the Central Act of 1957 contains the restrictions on the grant of prospecting licences or mining leases.
Statute	Section 6 prescribes the maximum area for which a prospecting licence or mining lease may be granted and Section 7 stipulates the period for which prospecting licence may be granted or renewed and Section 8 the period for which mining leases may be granted or renewed.
Statute	Section 9 fixes the royalties in respect of  mining leases--the rate being specified in the second schedule in respect of minerals--and confers authority on <ORG> to enhance or reduce the rate at which royalty shall be payable.
Statute	Section 9-A inserted by the Central Act 56 of 1962 makes the lessee liable to pay dead rent to <ORG> at such rate as may be specified in the 3rd.
Statute	Schedule.
Statute	Sections 10 to 12 provide the procedure for obtaining prospecting licences or mining leases in respect of lands in which the minerals vest in the <ORG>.
Statute	Section 13 confers power in <ORG> to make rules in respect of minerals.
Statute	Section 14 excludes the application of Sections 4 to 13 to minor minerals.
Statute	Section 15 confers power on <ORG> to make rules in respect of minor minerals.
Statute	Section 16 gives power to modify mining leases-granted before 25th of October, 1959.
Statute	Section 17 lays down the special powers of <ORG> to undertake prospecting or mining operations in certain lands.
Statute	Section 18 gives power  to <ORG> to take all such steps as may be necessary for the conservation and development of minerals and in that behalf gives additional power to it.
Statute	Section 19 provides that any prospecting licence or mining lease granted, renewed, or acquired in contravention of the provisions of the Act or any rules or orders made thereunder, shall be void and of no effect.
Statute	Section 20 makes the provisions of the Act and the rules applicable to prospecting licences or mining leases granted before the commencement of the Act.
Statute	The next important provision is S. 25 which is an enabling provision.
Statute	It provides that any rent, royalty, tax, fee or other sum due to the Government under the Act or the rules or under the terms and conditions of any prospecting licence or mining lease may, on a certificate of such officer as may be specified by <ORG>, be recovered, in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue and, such due shall be a first charge on the assets of the holders of the licence or mining  lease, as the case may be.
Statute	Rule 31 of the Mineral Concession Rules 1960 lays down that where an order has been made for the grant of a mining lease, the lease deed in the prescribed form (Form K).
Statute	or in a form as near thereto as circumstances of each case may require, shall be executed within six months of the order or within such further period as <ORG> may allow in this behalf.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not necessary for our purpose to refer to the other provisions of the Central Act of 1957 or Mineral Concession Rules.
RatioOfTheDecision	7.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was contended by the counsel for the petitioners that having regard to the declaration in Section 2 of the Central Act of 1967 that "it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the regulation of Mines and development of minerals", <ORG> was denuded of the power to make legislation in respect of mines and mineral development.
RatioOfTheDecision	The field of <ORG> under Entry 23 of List II was taken over by the <ORG> and the imposit ion of cess on lands held for carrying on mining operations was a trespass upon occupied field.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was contended that <ORG> was no more competent to make law either under Entry 49 or Entry 50 of List II after the <ORG> occupied the field by its declaration that it took under its control the regulation of mines and development of minerals.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was argued that the imposition of cess in respect of lands held for carrying on mining operations was a piece of colourable legislation as <ORG> was indirectly or covertly doing what it could not do overtly or directly.
RatioOfTheDecision	The exercise of power under Entry 49 was a cloak, the real object being framing of law in relation to mines and development of minerals.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	In a federal Constitution, it is of the essence that there should be a distribution of the legislative powers of the federation between the <ORG> and the Provinces.
RatioOfTheDecision	A federal system implies a double Government and a division of powers between the two Governments, the Federation an d the <ORG>s.
RatioOfTheDecision	The scheme of distribution has varied with different Constitutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In Australia, <ORG> has enumerated or selected its exclusive powers.
RatioOfTheDecision	The enumeration is not double.
RatioOfTheDecision	Only the powers of <ORG> are enumerated.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has both exclusive and concurrent powers, though there is no separate list enumerating the concurrent powers.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Legislative powers of the <ORG> are residuary.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> Legislature may legislate on any subject not exclusively assigned to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	But in case of inconsistency, the law of <ORG> is to prevail.
RatioOfTheDecision	The British North America Act, 1R67, however, divides the field of legislation between <ORG> and <ORG>, the powers are enumerated exhaustively in Sections 91 and 92 of the said Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Matters of common Canadian concern are assigned to <ORG> while matters of local concern are assigned to the Provincial <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In case of overlapping, th e benefit goes to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, the residuary power is vested in <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The provisions relating to distribution of powers in our Constitution were adopted from the Government of India Act, 1935.
RatioOfTheDecision	"<ORG> when enacting the Indian Constitution Act had a long experience of the working of the British North America Act and the Australian Commonwealth Act and must have known that it is not in practice possible to ensure that the powers entrusted to the several <ORG> will never overlap."
RatioOfTheDecision	(Lord <NAME> v. <ORG>, AIR 1947 PC 60).
RatioOfTheDecision	It gave an exhaustive enumeration of powers and distributed them in three Legislative lists--List I being Federal, List II being provincial and List III being Concurrent Legislative List.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 100(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, gave <ORG> exclusive power to legislate with respect to matters in List I, Section 100(2) gave <ORG> and, subject to Section 100(1) , al so to the provincial <ORG>, power to legislate in respect of matters in List III; and Section 100(3) gave the Provincial <ORG>, subject to Sections 100 (1) and (2), exclusive power to legislate in respect of matters in List II.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such enumeration of powers was made with a view to reducing litigation arising from overlapping powers.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Lists were, in fact supremely well drawn and disputes of substance have presented no insuperable problems.
RatioOfTheDecision	The 1935 Act was an innovation over the earlier Acts enacted by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The innovations inter alia were in the fields of exercise of concurrent legislative powers and in the distribution of powers of taxation.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Lists contained in the 7th Schedule to the 1935 Act provided for distinct and separate fields of taxation.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Concurrent List contained no entry relating to taxation but provided only for lees in respect of matters contained in the List but not including fees taken in any Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Lists I and II of the 7th Schedule, however, avoided  overlapping powers of taxation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under our constitutional scheme, the entire legislative power is distributed between the <ORG> and <ORG>; the framers of the Constitution divided all conceivable topics or subjects, being 209 in number, in three legislative lists, the division between <ORG> and <ORG> depending broadly on their national and local importance, with the third fist containing subjects of common interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	Today, List I.
RatioOfTheDecision	Union List--comprises 96 heads or subjects; List II being the State List comprises 62 heads or subjects while List III comprises 52 heads or subjects, and ordinarily all the Entries in the three Lists in between them exhaust all conceivable subjects of legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	By way of abundant caution, residuary power in regard to unforeseen topics or subjects is vested in the <ORG> under residuary Entry 97 in List I.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Lists merely contain enumeration of subjects while the actual distribution of legislative powers has been made by Articles 245 an d 246 and under the scheme of these two articles, the position becomes clear that <ORG> as well as <ORG> <ORG> are sovereign legislative bodies possessing plenary legislative powers within the ambit of Entries assigned to them, subject to primary (sic) being given to the laws made by <ORG> over the <ORG> Laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 248 confers exclusive residuary powers of legislation upon <ORG> to make any law with respect to any matter not enumerated in the Concurrent List or <ORG> List and this Article has to be read with Entry 97 of the Union List.
RatioOfTheDecision	In connection with the aforesaid scheme pertaining to distribution of legislative powers, two things appear to be well settled.
RatioOfTheDecision	Firstly, every effort having been made to make the three lists as comprehensive and exhaustive as possible, the specific Entries in the three Lists in between them must be held to exhaust all conceivable topics or subjects oi legislation and, therefore wheneve r any matter is dealt with by any particular Act, aa attempt will have to be made to allocate such matter to one or the other of the Entries in these Lists and secondly, it is only when such attempt fails that the Court can fall back upon the residuary Entry 97 of List I, for, resort to residual powers should be the last refuge.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_723390> , AIR 1978 Bom 119 (FB).
RatioOfTheDecision	The problem of construction of the Entries has engaged the minds of Judges, In the case of <ORG> Mt.
RatioOfTheDecision	Atiqua Begum, AIR 1941 FC 16.
Precedent	<NAME>, C.J., observed:  'The subjects dealt with in the three legislative lists are not always set out with scientific definition.
Precedent	It would be practically impossible lor example to define each item in the Provincial List in such a way as to make it exclusive of every other item in that list, and <ORG> seems to have been content to take a number of comprehensive categories and to describe each of them by a word of broad and general import...................I think, however, that none of  the items in the lists is to be read in a .narrow or restricted sense, and that each general words should be held to extend to all ancillary or subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in it."
Precedent	In Asstt.
Precedent	<CITATION_1180216> ., AIR 1970 SC 169, <NAME>, J. said (at p. 175) :  ".........The legislative entries must be given a large and liberal interpretation, the reason being that the allocation of the subjects to the lists is not by way of scientific or logical definition but by way of a mere simple enumeration of broad categories........"   <CITATION_258508> ., AIR 1962 SC 1563, <NAME>, J. observed (at p. 1568):  ".........It is necessary to bear in mind that we are interpreting the words used in the Constitution and it is an elementary cardinal rule of interpretation that the words used in the Constitution which confer legislative powers must receive the most liberal construction and if they are words of wide amplitude, they must be interpreted so as to give effe ct to that amplitude.
Precedent	It would be out of place to put a narrow or restricted construction on words of wide amplitude in.
Precedent	a Constitution......-.-"  <NAME> summarised the position thus:--  ".........When a law is impugned on the ground that it is ultra vires the powers of the legislature which enacted it, what has to be ascertained is the true character of the legislation.
Precedent	To do that, one must have regard to the enactment as a whole, to its objects and to the scope and effect of its provisions.
Precedent	If on such examination it is found that the legislation is in substance one on a matter assigned to the legislature, then it must be held to be valid in its entirety, even though it might incidentally trench on matters which are beyond its competence.
Precedent	It would be quite an erroneous approach to the question to view such a statute not as an organic whole, but as a mere collection of sections, then disintegrate it into parts, examine under what heads of legislation those parts would severally fall, and by tha t process determine what portions thereof are intra vires, and what are not........."  ".........Notwithstanding that the lists were framed so as to be fairly full and comprehensive, it was not long before it was found that the topics enumerated in the two sections overlapped, and <ORG> had time and again to pass on the constitutionality of laws made by the Dominion and Provincial legislatures.
Precedent	It was in this situation that <ORG> evolved the doctrine, that for deciding whether an impugned legislation was intra vires, regard must be had to its pith and substance.
Precedent	That is to say, if a statute is found in substance to relate to a topic within the competence of the legislature, it should be held to be intra vires, even though it might incidentally trench on topics not within its legislative competence.
Precedent	The extent of the encroachment on matters beyond its competence may be an element in determining whether the legislation is colourable, that is, whether in the guise of making a law on a mat ter within its competence, the legislature is, in truth, making a law on a subject beyond its competence.
Precedent	But where that is not the position, then the fact of encroachment does not affect the vires of the law even as regards the area of encroachment........."  ( <CITATION_1057797> , AIR 1957 SC 297) <CITATION_1134083> , AIR 1941 FC 47, Gwyer, C. J., observed :  "It must inevitably happen from time to time that legislation, though purporting to deal with a subject in one list, touches also on a subject in another list, and the different, provisions of the enactment may be so closely intertwined that blind adherence to a strictly verbal interpretation would result in a large number of statutes being declared invalid because the legislature enacting them may appear to have legislated in a forbidden sphere.
Precedent	Hence the rule which has been evolved by the judicial committee whereby the impugned statute is examined to ascertain its 'pith and substance', or its 'true nature and character', for the purpose of determinin g whether it is legislation with respect to matters in this list or in that........."  In <NAME> case (AIR 1947 PC 60) (supra), Lord <NAME> approving the aforesaid observations of <NAME>, <NAME> observed:  '"Their Lordships agree that this passage correctly describes the grounds upon which the rule is founded, and that it applies to Indian as well as to Dominian legislation.
Precedent	No doubt experience of past difficulties has made the provisions of the Indian Act more exact in some particulars and the existence of the Concurrent List has made it easier to distinguish between those matters which are essential in determining to which list particular provisions should be attributed and those which are merely incidental.
Precedent	But the overlapping of subject-matters is not avoided by substituting three lists for two or even by arranging for a hierarchy of jurisdictions.
Precedent	Subjects must still overlap and where they to the question must be asked what in pith and substance is the effect of the enactment of which complaint  is made and in what list is its true nature and character to be found.
Precedent	If these questions could not be asked, much beneficent legislation would be stifled at birth, and many of the subjects entrusted to <ORG> could never effectively be dealt with."
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME>, (1937) AC 863, the principle was stated thus :  "It is well established that you are to look at the true nature and character of the legislation, the pith and substance of the legislation.
Precedent	If on the view of the statute as a whole, you find that the substance of the legislation is within the express powers, then it is not invalidated if incidentally it affects matters which are outside the authorised field.
Precedent	The legislation must not under the guise of dealing with one matter in fact encroach upon the forbidden field.
Precedent	Nor are you to look only at the object of the legislator.
Precedent	An Act may have a perfectly lawful object e.g., to promote the health of the inhabitants, but may seek to achieve that object by invalid methods, e.g., dire ct prohibition of any trade with a foreign country.
Precedent	In other words, you may certainly consider the clauses of an Act to see whether they are passed in respect of the forbidden subject."
Precedent	<CITATION_775246> , AIR 1953 SC 375, <NAME>, J., observed (at p. 379):--  "It may be made clear at the outset that the doctrine of colourable legislation does not involve any question of 'bona fides' or '<NAME> fides' on the part of the legislature.
Precedent	The whole doctrine re-solves itself into the question of competency of a particular legislature to enact a particular law.
Precedent	If the legislature is competent to pass a particular law, the motives which impelled it to act are really irrelevant.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, if the legislature lacks competency, the question of motive does not arise at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether a statute is constitutional or not is thus always a question of power..........A distinction, however, exists between a legislature which is legally omnipotent like <ORG> and the laws promulgated by which could n ot be challenged on the ground of incompetency, and a legislature which enjoys only a limited or a qualified jurisdiction.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the Constitution of a State distributes the legislative powers amongst different bodies, which have to act within their respective spheres marked, out by specific legislative entries, or if there are limitations on the legislative authority in the shape of fundamental rights, questions do arise as to whether the legislature in a particular case has or has not, in respect to the subject-matter of the statute or in the method of enacting it, transgressed the limits of its constitutional, powers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such transgression may be patent, manifest or direct but it may also be disguised, covert and indirect and it is to this latter class of cases that .the expression 'colourable, legislation' has been applied in certain judicial pronouncements.
RatioOfTheDecision	The idea conveyed by by the Expression is that although apparently a legislature in passing a statute, purported to act within the limits of its powers, ye t in substance and in reality it transgressed these powers, the transgression being veiled by what appears, on proper examination, to be a mere pretence or disguise.
Precedent	As was said by <NAME>., J. in Attorney-General for Ontario v. <ORG>, (1924) AC 328 at p. 337 (B):  "Where the law making authority is of a limited or qualified character it may be necessary to examine with some strictness the substance of the legislation for the purpose of determining what is that the legislature is really doing."
Precedent	In other words, it is the substance of the Act that is material and not merely the form or outward appearance, and if the subject-matter in substance is some thing which is beyond the powers of that legislature to legislate upon the form in which the law is clothed would not save it from condemnation.
Precedent	The legislature cannot violate the constitutional prohibitions by employing an indirect method.
Precedent	In cases like these, the enquiry must always be as to the true nature and character of the challenged legislation  and it is the result of such investigation and not the form alone that will determine as to whether or not it relates to a subject which is within the power of the legislative authority--'vide (1924) AC 328 at p. 337 (B)'.
Precedent	For the purpose of this investigation the court could certainly examine the effect of the legislation and take into consideration its object, purpose or design--'Vide Attorney-General for Alberta v. Attorney-General for Canada, (1939) AC 117 at p. 130 (C).
Precedent	But these are only relevant for the purpose of ascertaining the true character and substance of the enactment and, the class of subjects of legislation to which it really belongs and not for finding out the motives which induced the legislature to exercise its powers.
Precedent	XXX -XXX XXX ...........
Precedent	It may appear on scrutiny that the real purpose of a legislation is different from that appears on the face of it, but it would be a colourable legislation only if it is shewn that the real object is not attainable to it by reason of any constituti onal limitation or that it lies within the exclusive field of another legislature.............   <CITATION_1149827> ., AIR 1977 SC 2279, <NAME>, J. observed (at p. 2286) :  ".......In the jurisprudence of power, colourable exercise of or fraud on legislative power or, more frightfully, fraud on the Constitution, are expressions which merely mean that the legislature is incompetent to enact a particular law although the label of competency is stuck on it, and then it is colourable legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is very important to notice that if the legislature is competent to pass the particular law, the motives which impel it to pass the law are really irrelevant.
RatioOfTheDecision	To put it more relevantly to the case on hand, if a legislation, apparently enacted under one Entry in the List, falls in plain truth and fact, within the content, not of that Entry but of one assigned to another legislature, it can be struck down as colourable even if the motive were most commendable.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the letter of the law notwithstanding,  what is the pith and substance of the Act?
RatioOfTheDecision	Does it fall within any Entry assigned to that legislature in pith and substance, or as covered by the ancillary power implied in that Entry?
RatioOfTheDecision	Can the legislation be read down reasonably to bring it within the legislature's constitutional powers?
RatioOfTheDecision	If these questions can be answered affirmatively, the law is valid Malice or motive is beside the point, and it is not permissible to suggest Parliamentary incompetence on the score of <NAME> fides."
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not possible to make so clean a cut between the powers of the various legislatures : they are bound to overlap, from time to time.
Precedent	10.
Precedent	The impact of Central Act of 1957 may now be considered.
Precedent	The question came up for consideration first in the case of <CITATION_1464523> , AIR 1961 SC 459.
Precedent	In that case the vires of the Orissa Mining Areas Development.
Precedent	Fund Act  was challenged on the ground that <ORG> had no power to make, the said law, in view of the provisions contained in the Mines and.
Precedent	Minerals (Reg ulation and Development) Act of 1948 passed by <ORG>.
Precedent	When the ease was heard by <ORG>, the Central Act of 1957 had come on the Statute Book.
Precedent	<ORG>, observed (at pp.
Statute	469-70):-- ".........The jurisdiction , of <ORG> under Entry 23 is subject to the limitation imposed by the latter part of the said Entry.
RatioOfTheDecision	If <ORG> by its law has declared that, 'regulation and development of mines should in public interest be under the control of the <ORG>, to the extent of such declaration the jurisdiction of <ORG> is excluded.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, if a Central Act has been passed which contains a declaration by <ORG> is required, by Entry 54, and, if the said declaration covers the field occupied by the impugned Act the impugned, Act would be ultra vires, not because of any repugnance between the two statutes but because <ORG> had no jurisdiction to pass the law.
RatioOfTheDecision	The limitation imposed by the latter part of Entry 23 is a limitation o n the legislative competence of <ORG> itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	.......What Entry 23 provides is that the legislative competence of <ORG> is subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the <ORG>, and Entry 54 in List I requires a declaration by <ORG> by law that regulation and development of mines should be under the control of the <ORG> in public interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, if a Central Act has been, passed, for the purpose of providing for the conservation and development of minerals, and if it contains the requisite declaration, then it would not be competent to <ORG> to pass an Act in respect of the subject-matter covered by the said declaration.
RatioOfTheDecision	In order that the declaration should be effective..........
Precedent	The vires of the Orissa Mines Areas Development Fund Act was again questioned in <CITATION_865455> ., AIR 1964 SC 1284, when the State of Orissa levied, demand of tax thereunder.
Precedent	The views expressed in <NAME> cas e (AIR 1961 SC 459) (supra) were reiterated and it was observed by <NAME>, J., (at p. 1287) :  "It does not need much argument to realise that to the extent to which <ORG> had taken under 'its control', 'the regulation and development of minerals' so much was withdrawn from the ambit of the power of <ORG> under Entry 23 and legislation of the <ORG> which had rested on the existence of power under that entry would to the extent of that 'control' be superseded or be rendered ineffective, for here we have a case not of mere repugnancy between, the provisions of the two enactments but of a denudation or deprivation of <ORG> legislative power by the declaration which <ORG> is empowered to make and has made."
Precedent	<CITATION_21773> , AIR 1965 SC 177, land cess was imposed, under the Madras District Boards Act of 1920.
Precedent	It was contended that in view of the Central Act of 1957, land cess under Section 78 of the Madras Act could not be levied in regard to mining leases.
Precedent	<ORG> rt observed that the Orissa Act, which was the subject-matter for consideration in <NAME> case and <NAME>'s case, had been passed for the purpose of development oi mining areas and the <ORG> enactment covered the same fields as the Orissa Act.
Precedent	Having regard to the comprehensive provisions contained in the several sections of the <ORG> Act , the extent provided included those which fell within the scope of the <ORG> Act , which was for the regulation and development of mining areas within the <ORG>.
Precedent	The decisions in <NAME> case (AIR 1961 SC 459) and <NAME>'s case (AIR 1964 SC 1284) were distinguished on the ground that the provisions of the Madras Act had nothing to do and were not concerned with the development ' of mines and minerals or their regulations.
Precedent	The proceeds of the land cess were credited to <ORG> which were to be utilised "for everything necessary for or conducive to the safety, health, convenience or education of the inhabitants or the amenities of the local a rea concerned and everything incidental to the administration."
Precedent	The land cess is in truth a 'tax on lands' within Entry 49 of the State List."
Precedent	Their Lordships observed :  ".........When a question arises as to the precise head of legislative power under which a taxing statute has been passed, the subject for enquiry is what in truth and substance is the nature of the tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	No doubt, in a sense, but in a very remote sense it has relationship to mining as also to the mineral won from the mine under a contract by which royalty is payable on the quantity of mineral extracted.
RulingByLowerCourt	But that, does not stamp it as a tax on either the extraction of the mineral or on the mineral right......."  Their Lordships held that the Central Act of 1957 did not denude <ORG> of its power to impose cess.
RulingByLowerCourt	<CITATION_791627> , AIR 1982 SC 697, the controversy was whether property tax could be imposed on the lands and buildings which were used for the purpose of mining operations and were covered by coal mines.
RulingByLowerCourt	It was urge d therein that when by virtue of the declaration in Section 2 of the Central Act of 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II passed on to the <ORG> under Entry 54 of List I, property tax could not be imposed under <ORG>, 1973 (as amended in 1976).
RulingByLowerCourt	Their Lordships observed that in <NAME> case (AIR 1965 SC 177) (supra) it had been held that the tax had nothing to do with the development of mines or minerals or their regulation.
RulingByLowerCourt	The law providing for levy was not in conflict with the powers conferred on <ORG> to regulate and develop the coal mines.
RulingByLowerCourt	Their Lordships observed (at P. 708) :  "........The paramount purpose behind the declaration contained in Section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act , 1957 is not in any manner defeated by the legitimate exercise of taxing power under Section 69 (d) of the Act of 1973."
RulingByLowerCourt	Their Lordships distinguished the decision in <CITATION_1752601> AIR 1970 SC 1436, on the grou nd that <ORG> had no legislative competence to demand dead rent, royalty and surface rent contrary to the terms of the lease.
RulingByLowerCourt	After referring to the case of <CITATION_1201636> , AIR 1976 SC 1654, their Lordships observed that the declaration under Section 2 of the Central Act of 1957 did not result in invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals.
RulingByLowerCourt	The rule laid down in <CITATION_917157> ., AIR 1980 SC 1955, was followed.
Argument	In that case <ORG> by an Ordinance acquired 12 sugar undertakings.
Argument	It was contended that <ORG> had no competence to pass the Ordinance in view of the fact that sugar was a declared industry under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act , 1951.
Argument	It was held by <ORG>, that the field occupied by <ORG> was the measure of the erosion of the legislative competence of <ORG>.
Argument	Since the Central Act was primarily concerned with the development and regulation of declared industr ies and not with ownership of industrial undertakings, <ORG> had the competence to enact the impugned law.
Argument	Summing up, their Lordships said in Western Coalfield's case (AIR 1982 SC 697) that the functions, powers and duties of Municipalities did not become an occupied field by reason of the declaration contained in Section 2 of the Central Act of 1957.
Argument	"........ .Though, therefore, en account of that declaration the legislative field covered by Entry 23, List II may pass on to the <ORG> by virtue of Entry 54 List I, the competence of <ORG> to enact laws for municipal administration will remain unaffected by that declaration."
Argument	11.
Argument	The various provisions contained in the Central Act of 1957 also indicate that the <ORG> while making the declaration in Section 2 has not taken under its control the field of taxation, No provision of the Act or the Rules has been brought to our notice which provides for levy of cess or tax.
Argument	Learned Counsel for the petitioners strongly rel ied on Section 25 and contended that it contained, the provisions regarding taxation.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our view, Section 25 is as enabling and not a substantive provision.
Statute	It says that any rent, royalty, tax or other sum due to the Government under the Act, or the Rules or under the terms and conditions of the prospecting licence or mining lease may, on a certificate of the prescribed authority, be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.
Statute	The section pre-supposes liability to tax under some other provision and declares that if any such liability has been incurred realisation can be made by following the mode prescribed for recovery of arrears of land revenue.
Statute	It was also contended that Rule 27 (1) (d) authorised imposition of cess on land over which mining operations were carried on.
Statute	We quote Rule 27 (1) (d):--  "(d) the lessee shall also pay, for the surface area used by him for the purposes of mining operations, surface rent and water rate at such rate, not exceeding the land revenue, water and cesses a ssessable on the land, as may be specified by <ORG> in the lease;"  Rule 27 enumerates the conditions the mining lease shall contain.
Statute	It enjoins that surface rent and water rate shall be specified by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	in the lease.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rate of such surface rent and water rate shall not exceed the land revenue, water rate and cess (otherwise) assessable on the land.
RatioOfTheDecision	The lessee shall be table to pay the surface rent and water rate so specified in the lease.
RatioOfTheDecision	The meaning would be abundantly clear we read the clause as under:  "(d).
RatioOfTheDecision	The lessee shall also pay, for the surface ares used by him for the purpose of mining operations, surface rent and water rate at such rate (not exceeding the land revenue, water and cesses assessable on the land), as may be specified by <ORG> in the lease;"  12.
Argument	It was contended that royalty was tax and the <ORG> having taken over control by declaration in Section 2 of the Central Act of 1957 to levy royalty in the field of mining and mineral development, the  power, of <ORG> to impose tax was over-borne.
Argument	In this connection, we were referred to two decisions, in the case of <CITATION_189219> , AIR 1965 Pat 491, it was held that the word royalty, had, been used in secondary sense to signify that part of the reddendum which was variable and depended) upon the quantity of minerals taken out.
RatioOfTheDecision	Royalty was a payment made to the land-owner by the lessee ed the mine, in return of the privilege of working it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It differed from rent.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was a kind of levy in proportion to the minerals worked.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was an impost, by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	though its origin was riveted in the concept of royal prerogative.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was a compulsory exaction and recoverable in the event of non-payment as arrear of land revenue.
Statute	All collections made on account of royalty on mines and minerals became part of the consolidated fund.
Statute	It was not a payment for service rendered, "......royalty on mines and minerals cannot be a fee but a levy of the nature of a tax."
Argument	In the case of <CITATION_446119> , AIR 19 72 Mys 299, <ORG> exercising the powers raider Sections 143 and 144 of the Mysore Village Panchayats and Local Boards Act of 1958, levied licence fee on the mining of manganese or iron ore, etc.
Argument	When challenged, the levy was sought to be sustained as tax.
Argument	It was observed that by enacting the Central Act of 1957,:  "......the <ORG> intended that the power to legislate with regard to taxation on mineral rights also should be assumed by it to the exclusion of the State Legislatures.
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression 'royalty' is used differently in different contexts.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sometimes it is used as equivalent to a tax also and in some other cases it is used as representing the amount payable by a lessee in respect of minerals removed by the lessee even though the lessor is not the sovereign Government.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are of the opinion that the expression 'royalty' in Section 9 which requires payment of royalty to <ORG> as prescribed in the II Schedule connotes the levy of a tax.
Statute	<NAME> v. State of  Bihar, AIR 1965 Pat 491.
Statute	It is a levy falling outside the scope of Entry 84 in List I which provides for levy of excise duty by <ORG>, but within the scope of the expression 'tax on mineral rights' within the meaning of that expression in Entry 50 of List II.
RatioOfTheDecision	To us it appears the expression 'tax on mineral rights' includes within its scope the royalty payable on minerals extracted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mineral rights' and mining activity carried on in exercise of those mineral rights appears to us to be indistinguishable in the above context.
RatioOfTheDecision	That appears to be the intendment of the declaration contained in Section 2 of the Central Act and that is so enacted in order to see that throughout the Indian Union, the rents, royalties and other taxes payable in respect pect of mining and minerals are uniform ............"  It may be observed that the licence the levied on mining activities was attempted to be sustained as tax by recourse to Entry 50 of List II.
RatioOfTheDecision	With respect, we are unable to accept the ratio of the decisions in the  cases of Laddu Mal and Laxminarayana (supra) that royalty is tax.
Argument	In the case of <NAME> (AIR 1965 SC 177) (supra), royalty was held to connote the payment made for the materials or minerals won from the lands.
Argument	In the case of <CITATION_1320517> , AIR 1979 Guj 180, it was held that the expression 'royalty' used in Section 9 was the share which the lessor claimed in the mineral which had been won from the soil by the lessee and which otherwise belonged to the lessor.
Argument	It was "not a tax in the form of compulsory exaction".
Argument	It was the price paid for the privilege of exercising the right to explore the minerals.
Argument	Their Lordships further observed (para 7) :  ".........since royalty is not a tax, the subject-matter of Section 9 (of Central Act of 1957) is not covered, by Entry 50 in the State List.
Argument	It falls squarely under Entry 54 of the Union List because a lessee who is authorised to operate mine and win minerals therefrom, pays price of that property, is prescribed by <ORG>, to the lessor or the owne r of the minerals the Union of India............."   <CITATION_1920671> , AIR 1969 Punj and Har 79, it was held that royalty was neither a tax nor a fee but was more akin to rent.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our view royalty is the payment made for the minerals extracted.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question can also be considered from another angle.
RatioOfTheDecision	The taxing powers of the <ORG> and <ORG> have been enumerated in List II.
Statute	In List I, <ORG> 1 to 81 mention the several matters over which the <ORG> has authority to legislate.
Statute	<ORG> 82 to 92 enumerate the taxes which can be imposed by a law enacted by the <ORG>.
Statute	"An examination of these two groups of <ORG> shows that while the main subject of legislation figures in the first group, a tax in relation thereto is separately mentioned in the second."
Statute	In List II, <ORG> 1 to 44 form one group enumerating the subjects on which <ORG> may make laws.
Argument	<ORG> 45 to 63 form another group and deal with taxes.
Argument	Construing the constitutional scheme, the Su <ORG> in the case of <CITATION_1138005> ., AIR 1958 SC 468 observed (at p. 494) :--  "...........taxation is not intended to be comprised in the main subject in which it might on an extended construction be regarded as included but is treated as a distinct matter for purposes of legislative competence.
Argument	And this distraction is also manifest in the language of Article 248 , Clauses (1) and (2) and of Entry 97 in List I of the Constitution..............."  "The taxes are separate and distinct impost", (Per Lord <NAME>) in our constitutional scheme.
Argument	Entry 54 of List I does not authorise the <ORG> to levy a tax pn mines or minerals.
Argument	If we accept the contention of the petitioners that royalty is tax and Sections 9 and 9-A contains provisions for levy of tax (royalty), the said sections would be ultra vires for want of legislative competence of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Keeping in mind the elementary principle that an interpretation which makes a law invalid should, if possible, be avoided, we are loath to hold that r oyalty is tax and Sections 9 and 9-A deprived <ORG> of its authority.
Argument	13.
Argument	The petitioners contained that <ORG> by the Cess.
Argument	Act has sought to impose royalty on the mines by way of cess or "to reach at the royalty" for the purpose of levying cess.
Statute	Section 5 of the Cess Act provides that the cess is to be assessed on the annual value and annual value in case of lands held for carrying on mining operations is defined as the royalty or as the case may be, the dead rent payable by, the person carrying on mining operations.
Statute	'Royalty' is defined as meaning the royalty payable under the Central Act of 1957 and included any payments made or likely to be made to the <ORG> for the right of raising minerals from the land which shall be calculated on every tonne of such minerals despatched from the lands at the same rate as prescribed under the said Act or such other rate as may be fixed by the <ORG> , but not exceeding the amount which would have otherwise been payable as royalt y und(er the said Act.
Argument	It was contended that assessment of cess with reference to royalty or payments made for the right of raising minerals was tantamount to levying royalty and so, the Cess Act was beyond the legislative competence of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	We were referred to AIR 1970 SC 1436 ( <CITATION_1752601> ).
Argument	In that case <ORG> demanded dead rent, royalty and surface rent from the lessee, contrary to the terms of the lease, by virtue of Section 10 (2) of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 and, the Rules framed thereunder.
Argument	It was held (at p. 1443):--  ".........Entry 54 of the Union List speaks both of <ORG>, and Entry 23 is subject to Entry 54.
Argument	It is open to <ORG> to declare that it is expedient in the public interest that the control should rest in <ORG>.
Argument	To what extent such a declaration can go is for <ORG> to determine and this must be commensurate with public interest.
Argument	Once this declaration is made and the extent laid dow n, the subject of legislation to the extent laid down becomes an exclusive subject for legislation by <ORG>.
Argument	Any legislation by the <ORG> after such declaration and trenching upon the field disclosed in the declaration must necessarily be unconstitutional because that field is abstracted from the legislative competence of the <ORG> Legislature......."  <ORG> observed that the pith and substance of the provision in the Bihar Act fell within Entry 23 of List II although it incidentally touched land, and the field having already been occupied by the Central legislation under Entry 54 of List I, the <ORG> Legislature had no legislative competence.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, Entry 54, List I and Entry 49 of List II operate in different fields and enumerate distinct heads of power.
Argument	Lord <NAME> observed in (1936) AC 352, In re Section 3 , Finance Act , (Northern Ireland), 1934:--  "It is the essential character of the particular tax charged that is to be regarded, and the nature of the machinery, often co mplicated, by which the tax is to be assessed is not of assistance except in so far as it may throw light on the general character of the tax."
Argument	In the case of <CITATION_563571> , AIR 1940 Bom 65 (FB), the question was whether the urban immovable property tax levied by S. 22 of the Amended Bombay Finance Act, 1932 was beyond the powers of <ORG>, on the ground that it was essentially a tax on income, <NAME>, <NAME> observed:--  ".......The main ground on which it is sought to be shown that the impugned tax is a tax on income is that it is assessed on the same basis as income tax, that is on annual value or the amount at which the property may reasonably be expected to let.
Argument	But the mode of assessment does not determine the character of a tax......  We have to discover what is the 'essential character' of the tax, what it is 'in pith and substance', apart from the mere machinery by which it is assessed, and we are to look mainly at the charging sections of the Act for this purpose.
Argument	But neither i n the charging sections nor in any other part can I find any clear evidence that is intended to be, or is in effect, a tax upon income........"  <NAME>, J.
Argument	(as his Lordship then was) in the said decision referred to AIR 1939 FC 1 (In re C. P. Motor Spirit Act) and said :  ".........the provisions of an Act like the Government of India Act, 1935 should not be cut down by a narrow and technical construction, but considering the magnitude of the subjects with which it purports to deal in a very few words, it should be given a large and liberal interpretation so that <ORG> to a great extent but within certain fixed limits may be mistress in her own house, as the provinces, to a great extent but again within theirs.
RatioOfTheDecision	In an enquiry, whether an enactment is ultra vires, the <ORG> must ascertain the true nature and character of the challenged enactment its pith and substance, and not the form alone which it may have assumed, under the hand of the draftsman.
RatioOfTheDecision	When there is an absolute jurisdiction vested  in a legislature, the laws promulgated by it must take effect according to the proper construction of the language in which they are expressed.
RatioOfTheDecision	But where the law-making authority is of a limited or qualified character obviously, it may be necessary to examine, with some strictness, the substance of the legislation, for the purpose of determinating what it is that the legislature is really doing.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is the duty of the courts, however, difficult it may be, to ascertain in what degree, and to what extent authority to deal with matters falling within, these classes of subjects (mentioned in the Central and Provincial Lists) exists in each <ORG> and to define, in the particular case before them the limits of their respective powers.
RatioOfTheDecision	It could not have been the intention that a conflict should exist; and in order to prevent such a result the two sections must be read together, and the language of one interpreted and where necessary modified by that of the other...........In the interpretation of a completely  self-governing constitution founded upon a written organic instrument (such as the Government of India Act of 1935) if the text is explicit, the text is conclusive, alike in what it directs and what it forbits.
Argument	When the text is ambiguous, as for example, when the words establishing two mutually exclusive jurisdictions are wide enough to bring a particular power within either, recourse must be had to the context and the scheme of the Act........."  In the case of <CITATION_1546265> , AIR 1949 FC 81, <NAME>, J. said:--  ".........If a tax is to be levied on property, it will not be irrational to correlate it to the value of the property and to make some kind of annual value the basis of the tax, without intending to tax income.........."  In the case of <CITATION_480236> , AIR 1976 SC 1654, the controversy was if the Haryana Minerals (Vesting of Rights) Act of 1973 was beyond the legislative competence of <ORG>.
Argument	<ORG> repelling the contention that acquisition was only a means of c onservation or development of mineral resources and the field stood excluded by the declaration of Section 2 and the other provisions of the Central Act , 1957 observed (at page 1666) :  ".........It seems difficult to sustain the case that the provisions of the Central Act would be really unworkable by mere change of ownership of land in which mineral deposits are found.
Argument	We have to judge the character of the Haryana Act by the substance and effect of its provisions and not merely by the purpose given in the statement of reasons and objects behind it, such statements of reasons are relevant when the object or purpose of an enactment is in dispute or uncertain............
Argument	It is not disputed here that the object and effect of the Haryana Act was to acquire proprietary rights to mineral deposits in land.
RatioOfTheDecision	Its provisions, however, do not mention leasehold or licensee rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	Obviously, this is so because these rights are governed, by the Central Act 67 of 1957,"  In the case of <CITATION_1501950> , AIR 1969 SC 59,  the question was if the Wealth-tax Act enacted by the <ORG> in.
RatioOfTheDecision	exercise of the power contained in Entry 86 of List I was ultra vires, because it trenched upon the field covered by Entry 49 of List II.
Precedent	In that context, it was said :  ".........By Legislation in exercise of power under Entry 86, List I tax is contemplated to be levied on the value of the assets.
Precedent	For the purpose of levying tax under Entry 49, List II <ORG> may adopt for determining the incidence of tax the annual or the capital value of the lands and buildings.
Precedent	But the adoption of the annual or capital value of lands and buildings for determining tax liability will not, in our judgment, make the fields of legislation under the two entries overlapping."
Precedent	In the case of Asst.
Precedent	<CITATION_1180216> .
Precedent	(AIR 1970 SC 169) (supra) the vires of the Madras Urban Land Tax Act of 1966 which imposed a tax on urban land at a percentage of the market value was questioned.
Argument	It was contended that <ORG> had trespassed upon the f ield of legislation covered by Entry 86, List I by adopting the annual or the capital value of lands and buildings as the measure.
Argument	It was held (para 5):--  "..........Tax on lands and buildings is directly imposed on lands and buildings, and bears a definite relation to it..........
Argument	But the adoption of the annual or capital value of lands and buildings for determining tax liability will not make the fields of legislation under the two entries overlapping......."   <CITATION_1097579> , AIR 1970 Bom 154, <ORG> enacted the Maharashtra Education (Cess) Act of 1962 which created a fund for the promotion of education in the State of Maharashtra and, for connected matters by levy of tax on lands and buildings at the rate of 2 per cent of the annual letting value of the lands and buildings.
Argument	Vires being challenged, it was held (at p. 158):--  "............It is true that the education tax is levied on a percentage basis on the annual letting value of the lands and buildings, but that is a mode of  of determining the quantum of tax imposed on the person who owns lands and buildings.
Fact	Nonetheless, it is a tax on lands and buildings and not on the income, as contended by the petitioner or exclusively reserved for local bodies---....,."
Fact	<CITATION_1512163> , AIR 1970 SC 999, <ORG> held that in pith and substance the Gift Tax Act placed a tax on the gift of property which include lands and buildings.
Fact	It was not a tax imposed directly upon lands and buildings, but was tax upon the value of the total gifts made in a year above the exempted limit.
Fact	The tax was not upon lands and buildings as the object of taxation; the value of the lands and buildings was ascertained as a measure of taxation.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words in the Entries conferring legislative Power should receive the most liberal construction and if the word used is of wide amplitude, no restricted meaning should be given.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is the meaning of the word 'land' in Entry 49 of List II ?
Statute	''......Entry 49 of List II contemplates a levy of tax on lands  and buildings or both as units.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such tax is directly imposed on lands and buildings and bears a definite relation to it.
RatioOfTheDecision	.................The word 'land' includes not only the face of the earth, but everything under or over it, and has in its legal signification an indefinite extent upward and downward, giving rise to the maxim.
RatioOfTheDecision	Cujus est solurn ejus est usque and coelum (see pp.
RatioOfTheDecision	162.73 Corpus Juris Secondum).
RatioOfTheDecision	According to <ORG>, 10th Edn., p. 259, not only has land in its legal signification an indefinite extent upwards, but in law it extends also downwards, so that whatever is in a direct line between the surface and the centre of the earth by the common law belongs to the owner of the surface (not merely the surface, but all the land down to the centre of the earth and up to the heavens) and hence the word land' which is nomen generalis-simurn, includes, not only the face of the earth, but everything under it or over it".
RatioOfTheDecision	(AIR 1975 SC 1234, <CITATION_1648125> ).
Precedent	In the case of City of Wes <ORG>, (1936) A. C. 511, Lord <NAME> of Killowen observed:--  "Subject to special enactments, people are rated as occupiers of land, land being understood as including not only the surface of the earth but all strata above or below."
Precedent	In the case of <ORG> v. <ORG>, (1855) 11 Ex.
Precedent	181 Pollock, <NAME> said:--  "There is no distinction between the occupying land, by passing through a fixed point of space in the air to another fixed, point, or by passing in the same manner through land or water.
Precedent	Land extends upwards as well as downward.
Precedent	It is stated in <ORG>, 11th Edn., at page 14 :--  "By far the largest number of persons rated are as 'occupiers of land or houses'.
Precedent	The word 'land' as used in the statute, must, be understood in the widest possible sense: it includes not only the surface of the earth, but everything under it, or over it".
Statute	Under the Cess Act , the object or subject-matter of taxation is land.
Statute	In a remote way, it may relate to mining ope rations carried on lands.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mines and minerals are not the object of taxation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Cess is not imposed directly on the extraction of minerals but upon the lands.
RatioOfTheDecision	No doubt, cess is assessed on the basis of royalty paid or payable but that is only a mode or machinery for assessment.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a measure of the tax.
Statute	To gather the object of taxation, the primary guide is what is known as the charging section.
Statute	The identification of the subject-matter of a tax is only to be found in the charging section.
Statute	That is the section which creates the liability to pay the tax as distinct from the mode of assessment or the machinery by which it is assessed.
Statute	( <CITATION_1546265> (AIR 1949 FC 81) (supra) Provincial Treasurer of Alberta v. <NAME>, (1933) AC 710, <CITATION_563571> (AIR 1940 Bom 65) (FB) (supra): and <ORG> v. <NAME>, AIR 1956 Bom 1.
RatioOfTheDecision	The intrinsic character of tax is not to be determined by the mode of measurement or standard of calculation prescribed for assessing the amount of tax.
Argument	"For the determi nation of the amounts of taxes to be assessed upon individual persons, corporations or pieces of property, any reasonable standard of measurement may be selected, and the intrinsic character of the tax is not determined by the mode of measurement thus selected."
Argument	'See <NAME>, constitutional law, Vol.
Argument	2 page 669).
Argument	In <NAME> case (supra), <NAME>, J., observed :--  ".........It is true that the annual value was used as the basis, but it was very different from the annual value which may be used, for getting at the true profits or income.
Argument	It is only a standard used in the Income-tax Act for getting at income, but that is not enough to bar the use of the same standard for assessing provincial tax.
Precedent	If a tax is to be levied on property, it will not be irrational to correlate it to the annual value the basis of the tax, without intending to tax income......."  <NAME> in his Commentary on the Constitution of India has succinctly summarised the law thus:  In order to determine, whether a tax falls un der one or other of the taxing powers conferred by the various Entries in the List, it is necessary to examine the charging section of the taxing statute as distinguished from the means or machinery or basis of taxation.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the mode of assessment does not determine the character of tax."
RatioOfTheDecision	The tax is charged under Section 4 of the Cess Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The provisions in Sections 5 , 6 and 7 contain the mode, the manner or the machinery of taxation.
Argument	It is therefore, difficult to accept the contention of the counsel for the petitioners that as the annual value of lands held for carrying on mining operations is calculated with reference to royalty or other payments paid or payable for the right of raising minerals, the cess levied under the Cess Act is not on lands but is royalty or a levy on royalty.
Argument	14.
Argument	It was next contended that the Cess Act infringed, Article 14 of the Constitution by singling out lands held for carrying on mining operations and for hostile and unequal treatment.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Cess Act does not app ly to houses or buildings.
RatioOfTheDecision	The First proviso to Section 4 excludes certain types of lands enumerated therein from the application of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whereas the rate of cess per year leviable on all lands except lands held for carrying on mining operations is 50 per cent of the annual value, in case of lands held for carrying on mining operations, the rate of cess is 100 per cent of the annual value.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was submitted; that discrimination was evident ex facie.
RatioOfTheDecision	There was no reasonable basis for the differential treatment.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1905739> AIR 1955 SC 191, it was observed (at p. 193):--  "......
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 14 forbids class legislation, it does not forbid reasonable classification for the purposes of legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	In order, however to pass the test of permissible classification two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (i) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from others left out of the group and (ii) that that differentia  must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question.
RatioOfTheDecision	The classification may be founded on different basis; namely, geographical, or according, to objects or occupations or the like.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act under consideration............".
RatioOfTheDecision	"........... .In permissible classification mathematical nicety and perfect equality are not required.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarity, not identity of treatment, is enough.
RatioOfTheDecision	If there is equality and uniformity within each group, the law will not be condemned as discriminative, though due to some fortuitous circumstances arising out of peculiar situation some included in a class get an advantage over others, so long as they are not singled out for special treatment.
RatioOfTheDecision	Taxation law is not an exception to this doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, in the application of the principles, the <ORG>, in view of the inherent complexity of fiscal adjustment of diverse elements, permit a larger discreti on to the legislature in the matter of classification so long as it adheres to the fundamental principles underlying the said doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power of the legislature to classify is of wide range and flexibility so that it can adjust its system of taxation in all proper and reasonable ways.............  (See AIR 1975 SC 1234 (at p. 1244): <CITATION_1648125> ) ".........the <ORG> applies a spectrum of standards in reviewing discrimination violative of Article 14. that spectrum comprehends variation in the degree of care with which the <ORG> will scrutinise particular classification and, that in the context of economic and tax matters, a classification made by the legislature is almost always sustained because the <ORG> lacks both the expertise and the familiarity with the local problem so necessary for making a wise decision, with respect to raising and disposing public revenues ......... ... ...." (See AIR 1975 SC 594, <CITATION_390993> .
RatioOfTheDecision	"It is well recognised that a <ORG> does not have to tax everythin g in order to tax something.
RatioOfTheDecision	It can pick and choose districts, objects, persons, methods and even rates of taxation as long as it does so reasonably (Wills Constitutional law of the United States 587).
RatioOfTheDecision	A taxing statute is not invalid on the ground of discrimination merely because other objects could have been but are not taxed by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	(<NAME> v. <ORG>, AIR 1969 SC 1094).
RatioOfTheDecision	When a statute divides the objects of tax into groups or categories, (so) long as there is equality and uniformity within each group, the tax cannot be attacked on the ground of its being discriminatory although due to fortuitous circumstances or a particular situation some included in a class or group may get some advantage over others, provided of course they are not sought out for special treatment (AIR 1963 SC 591).
RatioOfTheDecision	Likewise, the mere fact that a tax falls more heavily on some in the same group or category is by itself not a ground for its invalidity, for then hardly any tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	for instance, sales tax  and excise tax, can escape such a charge (AIR 1970 SC 1133).
RatioOfTheDecision	The Cess Act excludes houses and buildings from its purview because the houses and buildings are assessable to tax in the <ORG> either under the Municipal Act or the Gram Panchayat Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, land assessed to tax or part of a holding under the Orissa Municipal Act are outside the charging section.
RatioOfTheDecision	Lands which are assessable to cess have been classified into two categories; namely, lands held, for carrying on mining operations and other lands.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rate of cess in respect of the first category is 100 per cent of the annual value; it is 50 per cent in case of second category.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act does not discriminate within the category of person who hold lands for carrying on mining operations.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is equality and uniformity within this group.
RatioOfTheDecision	Merely because the tax falls more heavily on lands held for carrying on mining operations, it cannot be said that the Act violates the guarantee enshrined in Article 14.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was open to the legislature to pick and  choose.
RatioOfTheDecision	Equality in, taxation matters does not mean that every person should be taxed, equally.
RatioOfTheDecision	It does not mean that if property of the same character has to be taxed, the taxation must be by the same standard, so that the burden of taxation may fall equally on all persons holding that kind and extent of property.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the taxation, generally speaking, imposes a similar burden on every one with reference to that particular kind and extent of property on the same basis of taxation , the law shall not be open to attack on the ground of inequality, even though the result of the taxation may be that the total burden on different persons may be unequal.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence, if the legislature has classified persons or properties into different qategories, which, are subjected to different rates of taxation with reference to income or property, such a classification would not be open to the attack of inequality on the ground that the total burden resulting from such a classification is unequal.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, different kinds of prop erty may be subjected to different rates of taxation, but so long as there is a rational basis for the classification, Article 14 will not stand in the way or such a classification resulting in unequal burdens on different classes of properties.
Precedent	But if the same class of property similarly situated is subjected to an incidence of taxation, which results in inquality, the law may be struck down as creating an inequality amongst holders of the same kind of property see <NAME> case, AIR 1961 SC 552.
Precedent	The <ORG> has a wide discretion in selecting the persons or objects it will tax, and that a statute is not open to attack on the ground that it taxes some persons or objects and not others.
Precedent	It is only when within the range of its selection, the law operates unequally, and that cannot be justified on the basis of any valid, classification, that it would be violative of Article 14 , (See AIR 1962 SC 1733).
RatioOfTheDecision	We are satisfied that there is an intelligible differentia distinguishing lands held for carrying on mini ng operations from other lands and the differentia has a rational relation to the objects sought to be achieved.
RatioOfTheDecision	The challenge to the Act on the ground that it was violative of Article 14 , therefore, fails.
RatioOfTheDecision	The challenge fails also on another ground.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is a presumption of constitutional validity of a statutory provision.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whoever assails the validity of any provision on the ground that it is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution takes the burden of pleading by necessary averments and establishing that the classification is violative of Article 14.
RatioOfTheDecision	"...Under the law it is for person who assails a legislation as discriminatory to establish that it is not based on a valid classification and it is well settled that this burden is all the heavier when the legislation under attack is a taxing statute......".
RatioOfTheDecision	(AIR 1962 SC 1733, <ORG> v. <ORG>).
RatioOfTheDecision	Except making a bald assertion that the Act was violative of Article 14 , the petitioners have not made the necessary averments to sust ain their plea; much less have they established, it.
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
Fact	The next ground of attack was that the Act was confiscatory in character and was violative of Article 19(1)(f) of the Constitution.
Fact	The petitioners referred us to <NAME> case (AIR 1961 SC 552) (supra).
Fact	The learned Advocate-General vehemently objected to our entertaining the plea.
Argument	He contended that a bald assertion that the Act was confiscatory in character or violative of Article 19(1)(f) was not enough.
Argument	The petitioners should have made necessary averments and furnished adequate facts and particulars to establish their plea.
Argument	With a view to wriggling out of the situation, one of the petitioners, i.e.
Argument	petitioner in <ORG>, filed certain documents and affidavits in course of the hearing of the matters, But no step was taken to incorporate the necessary averments by way of amendment.
RatioOfTheDecision	We agree with the learned Advocate-General that without the necessary averments in support of the plea, the plea ought not to be entertained and the  materials placed in course of the hearing should not be looked into.
RatioOfTheDecision	No step was taken to incorporate necessary averments by way of amendment of the writ petition.
RatioOfTheDecision	Assuming that there are the necessary averments we are of the view that the affidavits and the documents filed, by one of the petitioners, i.e., petitioners in.
RatioOfTheDecision	O. J. C. No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1517 of 1978, do not establish that the cess is confiscatory in character or violative of Article 19(1)(f) of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In applying the test of reasonableness, it is essential to notice that the power of taxation is generally regarded as an essential attribute of sovereignty and constitutional provisions relating to the power of taxation are regarded not as grant of power but as limitation upon the power which would otherwise be practically without limit But where the statute is plainly discriminatory or confiscatory or unconstitutional in nature, the tax can be struck down as unreasonable and violative of Article 19(1)(f).
Argument	In <NAME> ease (AIR 1961 SC 552) (su pra), the vires of Travancore-Cochin Land Tax Act, 1955, as amended by Travancore-Cochin Land Tax (Amendment) Act of 1967, was impugned.
Argument	It was alleged that under the Act the land tax at a flat rate of Rs.
Argument	2/- per acre had been imposed.
Argument	One of the petitioners therein made a grievance that though he had 25,000 acres of forest land, he was making an income of Rs.
Argument	3,190/- only per year out of the forest.
Argument	Under the amended law, he was required to pay Rs.50,000/- a year, besides a sum of Rs.
Argument	4,000/- as tax on the surveyed portion of the said forest.
Argument	Hence, his total liability in respect of the forest amounted to Rs.
Argument	54,000/- whereas his annual income was Rs.
Argument	3,100/-, without making any deduction towards expenses of management It was contended that such would also foe his liability year after year.
Argument	In the premises, <ORG> held that the Act was "clearly confiscatory in character and effect."
Precedent	<NAME> case (AIR 1961 SC 552) was considered by <ORG> in the case of <CITATION_258508> (AIR 196 2 SC 1563) (supra).
Precedent	Their Lordships observed that a careful examination of the material facts in <NAME> case would indicate that the Act had levied an impost which was confiscatory in character and so, was a piece of colourable legislation.
Precedent	But their Lordships cautioned (at p. 3572) :  "......The conclusion that a taxing statute is colourable would not and cannot normally be raised merely on the finding that the tax imposed by it is unseasonably high or heavy, because the reasonableness of the extent of the levy is always a matter within the competence of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a conclusion can be reached where in passing the Act the <ORG> has merely adopted a device and a cloak to confiscate the property 'of the citizen taxed.
RatioOfTheDecision	If, however, such a conclusion is reached on the consideration of all relevant facts that is a separate and independent ground for striking down the Act........."  16.
RatioOfTheDecision	The next ground of attack was with reference to Article 301 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was contended that the  levy impeded or inhibited free flow of trade and commerce guaranteed by Article 301.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>'s case (AIR 1961 SC 232), it was held that restrictions which directly (and) immediately restrict or impede the free flow or movement of trade came within the mischief of Article 301.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though the taxation amounted to restrictions, it was only such taxes as directly and immediately restricted trade that would fall within the purview of Article 301.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the great impact of the judgment, a larger Bench was constituted to reconsider the same and in <CITATION_304499> , AIR 1962 SC 1406 the aforesaid principle was upheld; but it was clarified that regulatory measure or measures imposing compensatory tax id not come within the purview of the restrictions contemplated under Article 301.
RatioOfTheDecision	An impost may have some effect on trade and commerce.
RatioOfTheDecision	What Article 301 , however, prohibits is an impost which would restrict or impede directly and immediately free flow of trade and commerce.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, the land cess does  not come within the mischief of Article 301.
RulingByLowerCourt	17.
RulingByLowerCourt	It was also contended that the impost was violative of the terms and conditions contained in the lease deeds, viz., mining leases.
RulingByLowerCourt	We have already held that the Central Act is referable to Entry 54 of List I, whereas the Cess Act has been enacted under the powers conferred on ^e State <ORG> by Entry 49 of List II.
RulingByLowerCourt	If the State <ORG> has the legislative competence, the petitioners cannot make a grievance that in addition to the amounts stipulated under the lease deed, they will be obliged to pay the cess in respect of the lands held by them for mining operations.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have also shown that the <ORG> has not the legislative competence to enact a provision for levy of tax on land over which mining operation is carried.
RatioOfTheDecision	Entry 54 is not an entry authorising imposition of tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, there is no provision in the Central Act or the Mineral Concession Rules which authorises imposition of tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	So, this ground also fails.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> .appe aring for Dr. <NAME> contended that the parent Act sought to impose a fee; but by the amending Act of 1976, the <ORG> had attempted to levy tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	The distinction between fee ,and tax is now well settled in law.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is unnecessary to consider the said aspect.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the levy is considered, as a fee, the Act would be stifled at birth, for, there is no indication of any quid, pro quo.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 10 would not save it from the vice, It is not the case of the <ORG> that the cess is in the nature of a fee.
RatioOfTheDecision	Its stand is a forthright one.
RatioOfTheDecision	The cess is a tax a compulsory exaction for the general revenue of the <ORG> and for public purposes.
RatioOfTheDecision	19.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was urged by the counsel that the provisions of the Act gave rise to strange and anomalous situations.
RatioOfTheDecision	By way of illustration it was stated that where a piece of land was used for carrying on mining operations and agricultural purposes, the land would, be liable to two sets of taxes.
RatioOfTheDecision	In respect of some land, there might be as many leases as types of ores found, grante d to one person or more.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the scheme of the Act more than one set of tax would be levied.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a scheme was unreasonable according to the petitioners.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the sphere of taxation this is not a strange phenomenon.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a situation also arises where multiple taxation is resorted to, e.g.
RatioOfTheDecision	(a) general tax, (b) water tax, (c) drainage tax and (d) conservancy tax in relation to a holding.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_8308> , AIR 1979 SC 321, it was observed, (at p, 324) :  "There is nothing in Article 265 from which one can spin out the constitutional vice called double taxation ......
RatioOfTheDecision	If on the same subject-matter the <ORG> chooses to levy tax twice over there is no inherent invalidity in the fiscal adventure save where other prohibitions exist......."   <CITATION_522452> , AIR 1962 SC 745 on the sale and manufacture of tobacco one set of tax was levied under the East Punjab General Sales Tax Act and under the Punjab Tobacco Vend Fees Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The provision was upheld.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1234947> , AIR 1982 All 406, imposition of sew erage tax and, water tax was upheld.
RatioOfTheDecision	Cess is assessed at a certain percentage of the annual value.
RatioOfTheDecision	Annual value is determined with reference to royalty or dead rent, as the case may be, paid or payable for lands held for carrying on mining operation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether royalty is paid or payable for one type of ore or more and by one person or more are ancillary matters which do not impinge on the taxing power of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contention is, therefore, devoid of substance.
RatioOfTheDecision	20.
Argument	It was urged that the Act was also violative of Article 14 by its denial for a fair hearing in course of assessment.
Argument	It was submitted that whereas in cases of assessments made under Sections 9 and, 9-A remedy by way of appeal has been granted to the aggrieved party, such a remedy has been withheld in case of assessment under Section 9B of cess on lands held for carrying on mining operations.
Argument	Repelling the attack the learned Advocate-General submitted that the assessment of cess was linked with and dependent upon the assessment of royalty.
Argument	Det ermination of cess is not by way of an independent assessment but is only an arithmetical calculation basing upon the assessment of royalty.
Argument	He further submitted that having regard to the scheme and the provisions of the Act and the Rules, provision containing a right of appeal was unnecessary and its absence did not prejudice the petitioners at all.
Argument	Further the Act conferred revisional powers on <ORG> to revise any order passed under the Act.
Precedent	<CITATION_1547238> , AIR 1977 SC 1825, <ORG> observed (at page 1843) :  "It is true that in several cases this court has held that a right of appeal is a gesture of statutory fairness in the disposal of cases.
Precedent	Our attention was drawn to the rulings reported as Jyoti Pershad, (1962) 2 SCR 125 : (AIR 1961 SC 1602) and <ORG> (1974) 3 SCR 221 : (AIR 1974 SC 1832) and other cases bearing on the necessity of right of appeal, as an incident of fair hearing.
Precedent	We cannot dogmatise, generalize or pontificate on questions of law who se application depends sensitively on the nature of the subject-matter, the total circumstances, the urgency of the relief and what not......"   <CITATION_1672252> , AIR 1979 SC 1803, it was contended that without a right of appeal the assessment of damages under the Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act , 1952, was unreasonable and arbitrary.
Precedent	<ORG> negatived the said contention observing (at p. 1806) :  ".........An appeal is a desirable corrective but not an indispensable imperative and while its presence is an extra check on wayward orders its absence Is not a sure index of arbitrary potential.
Precedent	It depends on the nature of the subject-matter, other available correctives, possible harm flowing from wrong orders and a wealth of other factors."
Argument	, That the writ jurisdiction of <ORG> was available to the aggrieved party was also taken into account in negativing the contention.
Argument	<CITATION_1737875> , AIR 1967 SC 1916, the Gujarat Education Cess Act not providing its own  procedure of assessment and in not giving the tax-payers an opportunity for putting forward their objections by way of representation, appeal or otherwise, before the tax is finally fixed, offended the principles of natural justice.
Argument	In that connection, their Lordships observed (at p. 1920):--  "......The cess is nothing more than an addition to existing taxes.
RatioOfTheDecision	As it is a precentage of another tax, the determination of the cess is not by an independent assessment.
Precedent	It is an arithmetical calculation based on the result of assessment under other Act or Acts,........"  In the case of <CITATION_1097579> , AIR 1970 Bombay 154, it was urged that no machinery had been provided for the manner of levying and calculating the Maharashtra Education Cess Act, 1962.
Precedent	The plea was negatived by holding that since the levy was a percentage of the annual letting value of the lands and buildings which was determined by separate proceedings, it was not necessary to evolve an independent method for the purpose of assessment and levy  of tax under the Cess Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, the aforesaid authorities squarely meet the challenge.
RatioOfTheDecision	The assessment of cess is not an independent exercise.
RatioOfTheDecision	Cess is quantified with reference to the royalty or dead rent, as the case may be.
RatioOfTheDecision	Once there is a determination of royalty or dead rent, quantification of the cess is an automatic process.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover, as was pointed out by <ORG> in <ORG> case (AIR 1979 SC 1803) (supra), remedy nevertheless is available to the aggrieved person.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> under Section 19 has wide powers to revise any orders passed under the Act or the Rules.
RatioOfTheDecision	21.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> referred to the statement of objects and reasons of Act 42 of 1976, and contended that the provision was a mere device and the real object was to impose royalty.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already indicated that the language of the provisions is clear.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is unnecessary to refer to the statement of objects and reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	The law is to be adjudged by its substance and its effect and not by the purpo se given in the statement of objects and reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	Resort to the Statement of objects and reasons is permissible when there is ambiguity in the provision or the meaning is not clear.
RatioOfTheDecision	Our attention was also drawn to the definition of 'royalty'--to its wide and expensive character to show that the object of the <ORG> was <NAME> fide and the legislation was a mere device or pretence.
Precedent	In our view, the wide and expansive nature of the definition is with a view to bringing within its fold all types of fact-situations we may here refer to what <NAME> said in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1909) 8 CLR 626 :--  "The claim of all legislatures is to project their minds as far as possible into the future and to provide in terms as general as possible for all contingencies likely to arise in the application of the law.........."  22, <ORG> was constituted, to consider the correctness of the decision rendered by <ORG> of this Court (the leading judgment wherein was delivered by one of us) in <CITATION_1 94009576> (1980) 50 Cut LT 34 : (1980 Tax LR NOC 140).
RatioOfTheDecision	We have come to the same conclusions as <ORG> on the points raised before it.
RatioOfTheDecision	22A.
RulingByPresentCourt	All the contentions raised on behalf of the petitioners having failed, the writ petitions have no merit and are accordingly dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	On the facts and circumstances of the cases, there would be no order as to costs.
RulingByPresentCourt	<NAME>, J. :--I agree.
RulingByPresentCourt	Dr. <NAME>, J. :--I agree.
