Fact	PETITIONER: UNION OF INDIA & ORS.
Fact	Vs. RESPONDENT: ClBATUL LIMITED DATE OF JUDGMENT27/09/1985 BENCH: <NAME>, R.S.
Fact	BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>, P.N.
Fact	(CJ) SEN, AMARENDRA NATH (J) CITATION: 1986 AIR 281 1985 SCR Supl.
Fact	(3) 95 1985 SCC (4) 535 1985 SCALE (2)770 CITATOR INFO : F 1987 SC 61 (1) R 1989 SC 516 (3) APL 1990 SC 202 (7) ACT: Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 - Sub-s.(2) of s. 36 Manufacture of Goods - Joint programme of seller and buyer Goods manufactured by seller - Supplied to buyer - Who is manufacturer - 'Wholesale` price charged by seller - Whether true basis for determination and levy of Excise Duty.
Fact	HEADNOTE: The respondent - <ORG> (the "seller") entered into two agreements with <ORG> (the "buyer") for manufacturing Resins by the seller.
Fact	The joint manufacturing programme indicated that the Resins were to be manufactured in accordance with the restrictions and specifications constituting the buyer's standard and supplied at prices to be agreed upon from time to time.
Fact	The  buyer was entitled to test a sample of each batch of the goods and after its approval the goods were to be released for sale to the buyer.
Fact	The products would bear certain trade-marks being the property of the foreign company <ORG> of Basle.
Fact	Tripartite agreements were also executed between the buyer, the seller and the foreign company, recognizing the buyer as the registered or licensed user of the trademarks, authorising the seller to affix the trade- marks on the products manufactured "as an agent for and on behalf of the buyer and not of his own account" and the right of the buyer being reserved to revoke the authority given to the seller to affix the trade-marks.
Fact	- The respondent filed declaration for the purposes of the levy of excise under the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 showing the wholesale prices of different classes of goods sold by it during the period May, 1972 to May, 1975.
Fact	The declaration included the wholesale prices of the different Resins manufactured under the two aforesaid agre ements.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Assistant Collector of Customs revised those prices upwards on the basis that the wholesale price should be the price for which the buyer sold the product in the market.
RulingByLowerCourt	According to the Assistant Collector the buyer was the manufacturer of goods and not the seller- 96 The Collector of Central Excise allowed the appeals of the respondent and accepted the plea that the wholesale price disclosed by the seller was the proper basis for determining the excise- duty.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Appellate orders were, however, revised by <ORG> under sub-s.(2) of s.36 of the Act and the orders made by the Assistant Collector were restored.
Fact	According to <ORG> the buyer is the person engaged in the production of the goods and the seller merely manufactures them on behalf of the buyer and that under the agreements the seller is required to affix the trade-marks of the buyer on the manufactured goods and that indicates that the goods belong to the buyer.
Fact	The orders of <ORG>.
Fact	were challeng ed under Article 226.
Fact	<ORG> held that the goods were manufactured by the seller as its own goods, and therefore, the wholesale price charged by the seller must form the true basis for the levy of excise duty.
Fact	Dismissing the appeals of <ORG>, ^ HELD: 1.
Fact	<ORG> was right in concluding that the wholesale price of the goods manufactured by the seller is the wholesale price at which it sells those goods to the buyer, and it is not the wholesale price at which the buyer sells those goods to others.
Fact	[101 D-E] 2.
Fact	The relevant provisions of the agreements and the other material on the record show that the manufacturing programme is drawn up jointly by the buyer and the seller and not merely by the buyer, and that the buyer is obliged to purchase the manufactured product from the seller only if it conforms to the buyer's standard.
Fact	For this purpose the buyer is entitled to test a sample of each batch of the manufactured product and it is only on approval by him that the product is released  for sale by the seller to the buyer.
Fact	It is apparent that the seller cannot be said to manufacture the goods on behalf of the buyer.
Fact	[100 B-C; F] 3.
Fact	It is clear from the record that the trade-marks of the buyer are to be affixed on those goods only which are found to conform to the specifications or standard stipulated by the buyer.
Fact	All goods not approved by the buyer cannot bear those trade-marks and are disposed of by the sellers without the 97 advantage of those trade-Larks.
RatioOfTheDecision	The trade-marks are affixed only A after the goods have been approved by the buyer for sale by the seller to the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	The seller owns the plant and machinery, the raw material and the labour and manufactures the goods and under the agreements, affixes the trade-marks on the goods.
RatioOfTheDecision	The goods are manufactured by the seller on its own account and the seller sells the goods with the trade-marks affixed on them to the buyer.
Precedent	<CITATION_923724> ,  Supp.
Precedent	1 S.C.R.
Fact	586, 592, 598, <ORG>, etc.
Fact	.
Fact	<ORG> and Others.
Fact	S.C.R.
Fact	21 at 31, <CITATION_1633916> .
Precedent	Excise Law Taxes 733 at 734 and <ORG> and others etc.
Precedent	etc.
Precedent	v. <ORG> etc.
Precedent	etc.
Precedent	Excise Law Times 1896, inapplicable.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.
Fact	2619 of 1977.
Fact	From the Judgment and Order dated 25.6.1977 of <ORG> in Special Civil Application No.
Fact	1324 of 1976.
Fact	AND Civil Appeal No.
Fact	4399 of 1985 From the Judgment and Order dated 14.12.1976 of <ORG> in Special Civil Application No.. 68 of 1975.
Fact	<NAME>, Solicitor General, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> for the Appellants.
Fact	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, Mrs. <NAME>, <NAME>, hiss <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> for the Respondent.
Fact	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, J.
Fact	These appeals by special leave are directed against the judgments and orders of the Gujarat hi <ORG> allowing two writ petitions preferred by the respondent challenging the levy of excise duty.
Fact	As they raise identical questions of law for consideration they are disposed by a common judgment The respondent is a company limited by shares.
Fact	of the total share capital, 65 per cent is owned by <ORG>, 30 per cent belongs to a foreign company known as <ORG> in Switzerland and the remaining 5 per cent to <ORG>.
Fact	The respondent <ORG> (referred to shortly as the "seller") entered into an agreement with the <ORG> ("the buyer") on March 24, 1971 under which certain specified products, which included U.F.
Fact	Resins and M.F.
Fact	Resins, were to be manufactured by the seller in accordance with a manufacturing programme drawn up jointly by the seller and the buyer.
Fact	The resins were to be manufactured in accordance with restrictions and specifications constituting the buyer's standard, and they were supplied at prices agreed upon between the s eller and the buyer from time to time.
Fact	The buyer was entitled to test a sample of each batch of these goods, and it was only after it had given its approval that the goods were to be released for sale to the buyer.
Fact	Another agreement between the two took place on June 1, 1975 in respect of Epoxy Resins and the terms of the agreement were similar to the terms of the earlier agreement.
Fact	It was understood that the products manufactured under the two agreements would bear certain trade marks which were the property of the foreign company, <ORG> of Basle.
Fact	In this connection, on December 7, 1971 a tripartite agreement was executed between the buyer the seller, and the foreign company in respect of four trade-marks, Aerolite, Melocol, Melolam and Resicart.
Fact	The foreign company, which owned these trade-marks, as well as the seller recognised the buyer as the registered or licensed user thereof.
Fact	The buyer authorised the seller to affix the said trade-marks on the products manufactured under the first contract, and t he seller was to do so "as an agent for and on behalf of the buyer and not of his own account."
Fact	The seller had also agreed to refrain from selling or dealing in, directly or indirectly, goods bearing the said trade-marks or any other marks similar thereto save and except for the explicit purpose of fulfilling the seller's obligations under the first agreement.
Fact	The buyer reserved the right to revoke the authority given to the seller to affix the trade-mark.
Fact	A similar tripartite agreement was executed between the three parties on December 1, 1973 in respect of the second agreement between the buyers and the seller, namely, that relating to Epoxy Resins.
Fact	The trade-mark concerned was Araldite.
Fact	The respondent filed a declaration for the purposes of the levy of excise under the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 showing the wholesale prices of different classes of goods sold by it during the period May, 1972 to May, 1975.
Fact	The declaration included the wholesale prices of the different resins manufactured under the  two aforesaid agreements.
Fact	The Assistant Collector of <ORG> revised those prices upwards on the basis that the wholesale price should be the price for which the buyer sold the product in the market.
Fact	The Assistant Collector proceeded on the footing that the buyer was the manufacturer of the goods and not the seller.
Fact	The respondent appealed to the Collector of Central Excise.
Fact	The appeals were allowed by the Collector, and he accepted the plea that the wholesale price disclosed by the seller was the proper basis for determining the excise duty.
Fact	The appellate orders were, however, revised by <ORG> under sub-s.(2) of s. 36 of the Act, and the orders made by the Assistant Collector were restored.
Argument	The respondent filed a writ petition in <ORG> against the orders of <ORG>, and <ORG> held that <ORG> was wrong and the appellate Collector was right on the question as to the liability of the seller to excise duty.
Argument	The basis on which the Centra l Government proceeded in holding that the wholesale price of the goods should be the wholesale price charged by the buyer is that the goods were manufactured by the seller on behalf of the buyer, specially as they were embossed with the trade-mark of which the buyer alone was the registered user in India, that the two agreements between the seller and the buyer envisaged that the goods were manufactured by the seller on behalf of the buyer and that therefore the buyer itself should be regarded as the manufacturer of the goods for the purpose of levying excise duty.
Argument	<ORG> has differed from the view taken by <ORG> and has held that the goods were manufactured by the seller as its own goods, and therefore the wholesale price charged by the seller must form the true basis for the levy of excise duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	Excise duty is levied under s. 3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 on goods manufactured in India and, broadly, for the purposes of computing the duty the value of the article is  deemed under s. 4 of the Act (as it stood before its amendment by Act XXII of 1973) to be the wholesale cash price for which an article of the like kind and quality is sold or is capable of being sold at the time of the removal of the article chargeable with duty from the factory for delivery at the place of manufacture.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words "manufacture" and "manufacturer" have been defined by clause  (f) of s. 2 of the Act, and for the purposes of the present controversy what is relevant is that part of the definition which defined "manufacturer of goods as being any person who engages in their production or manufacture on his own account."
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellant contends that on the facts and circumstances of this case it must be held that the buyer is the person engaged in the production of the goods and the seller merely manufactures them on behalf of the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	The entire question before us is whether the goods are manufactured by the seller or are manufactured by the seller on behalf of the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	The relevant provisions  of the agreements and the other material on the record show that the manufacturing programme is drawn up jointly by the buyer and the seller and not merely by the buyer, and that the buyer is obliged to purchase the manufactured product from the seller only if it conforms to the buyer's standard.
RatioOfTheDecision	For this purpose the buyer is entitled to test a sample of each batch of the manufactured product and it is only on approval by him that the product is released for sale by the seller to the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the buyer has the right to reject the goods if he does not approve of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the manufactured goods are not in accordance with the buyer's standard, they are either reprocessed to bring them up to the requisite quality or if that is not possible the goods are sold to the buyer for a different purpose if they are compatible with the specifications of some other product and provided that the buyer has a need for that product, or the goods are sold to others in the market as sub-standard goods at a lower pr ice of the goods are destroyed.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is significant to note that the buyer is not obliged to purchase the goods manufactured by the seller regardless of their quality, and that in the event of rejection by the buyer the alternatives present before the seller extent to the sale of the manufactured goods to others or even to the very destruction of the goods.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is apparent that the seller cannot be said to manufacture the Roods on behalf of the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellant relies also on the circumstance that under the agreements the seller is required to affix the trade-marks of the buyer on the manufactured goods and, it is said, that indicates that the goods belong to the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	It seems to us clear from the record that the trade-marks of the buyer are to be affixed on those goods only which are found to conform to the specifications or standard stipulated by the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	All goods not approved by the buyer cannot bear those trade-marks and are disposed of by the sellers without the advantage of those trade-marks.
RatioOfTheDecision	The  trade marks are affixed only after the goods have been approved by the buyer for sale by the seller to the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	The seller owns the plant and machinery, the raw material and the labour and manufactures the goods and under the agreements affixes the trade-marks on the goods.
RatioOfTheDecision	The goods are manufactured by the seller on its own account and the seller sells the goods with the trade marks affixed on them to the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellant has invited our attention to certain observations in <CITATION_923724>  Supp.
Precedent	1 S.C.R.
Precedent	586 at 592 and 598., <ORG>.., etc.
Precedent	v. <ORG>,  3 S.C.R.
Precedent	21 at 31., <CITATION_1633916> .
Precedent	Excise Law Times 733 at 734., and <ORG> etc.
Precedent	v. <ORG> etc.
Precedent	etc.,  Excise Law Times 1896., but in none of those observations do we find any acceptable support for the proposition that the goods are manufactured by the seller on behalf of the buyer.
Precedent	In the result, we hold that <ORG> is right in concluding that the  wholesale price of the goods manufactured by the seller is the wholesale price at which it sells those goods to the buyer, and it is not the wholesale price at which the buyer sells those goods to others.
Precedent	The appeals are dismissed with costs.
Precedent	A.P.J.
Precedent	Appeals Dismissed.
Precedent	102
