Fact	CASE NO.
Fact	: Writ Petition (civil) 930 of 1990 PETITIONER: <NAME> & ORS.
Fact	RESPONDENT: UNION OF INDIA & ORS.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 08/08/1991 BENCH: <NAME> (CJ) & <NAME> & <NAME> & <NAME> & <NAME> JUDGMENT:  JUDGMENT 1992 ( 3 ) Suppl.
Fact	SCC 212 The Order of the Court is as follows  1.
Fact	We had adjourned the matter on the earlier occasion till today to provide an opportunity to the Union of India to place before us its clear stand as to whether the Notification dated August 13, 1990 was being implemented or not  2.
Fact	A memo has been filed today by the learned Additional Solicitor General to the following effect "The Government of India Office Memorandum dated August 13, 1990 provided for reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBCs) in civil posts/services under <ORG>  2.
Fact	The present government is fully committed to the principle of reservation for SEBCs.
Fact	In implementing the policy of reservation, the government intend to give preference to the poorer  sections among SEBCs, while ensuring that, if candidates are not available from poorer sections, the benefits will go to other members of the backward classes.
Fact	In addition, government also intend to provide reservation for other economically backward sections of the people who are not covered by any existing scheme of reservation  3.
Fact	While the aforesaid OM can be amended to reflect the government's policy, government believe that any such step should be taken in consultation with other political parties to avoid controversies.
Fact	This has been categorically stated in <ORG> on behalf of government  4.
Fact	Government believe that social justice has to be promoted in an atmosphere of social harmony and peace.
Fact	It is, therefore, necessary that the issues in this regard should be discussed first among major political parties and, if possible, a consensus evolved  5.
Fact	To evolve such consensus among major political parties, government need some time, especially in the present difficult situation facing the country.
Fact	A mi nimum period of two months is required to complete this exercise.
Fact	Government prays for adjournment of the hearing of the case accordingly.
Fact	Government wants to assure the <ORG> that it would utilise the time given to it for undertaking full and effective consultations with all concerned in the interest of evolving a generally acceptable solution."
Fact	On the basis of what is stated in the memorandum, learned Additional Solicitor General wants two months' adjournment of the hearing  3.
Fact	Mr <NAME> raises serious objections to any adjournment of hearing of the cases by filing a counter memorandum indicating therein that all the points which have arisen for argument would still exist as issues requiring attention of the <ORG> even if that is proposed by <ORG> is done.
Fact	It is, therefore appropriate according to him that the hearing of the matters should continue  4.
Fact	Mr <NAME> says that we should continue the hearing to decide the constitutional validity of the Mandal Commission Report  5.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some counsel on  the side of the petitioners state that we should await the new formulation  6.
RatioOfTheDecision	The validity of the Mandal Commission Report as such is not in issue before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	What we have been called upon to decide is the validity of the Government Order of August 13, 1990.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that some of the aspects which Mr <NAME> has indicated may have to be argued even if the new formulation comes but a constitutional question should not be argued in a vacuum and until we know the exact text of the government order which is sought to be formulated, it may not be appropriate at all to enter into the stage of hearing of the matter just because some issues may be common  7.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances, we adjourn the matter to September 24, 1991 but we would suggest to <ORG> to take appropriate steps as early as possible so that the proposed decision is taken and in case it is finalised at any time prior to September 24, 1991 we would like the learned Additional Solicitor-General to mention that fact to this Court so th at the hearing may be appropriately preponed  8.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr <NAME> then contended that the embargo put by the court on the operation of the order dated August 13, 1990 which has been in force for almost a year now should be withdrawn in view of the fact that <ORG> is not able to take any decision  9.
RatioOfTheDecision	On an overall assessment of the situation we are of the view that we should not interfere with our interlocutory order at this stage.
RatioOfTheDecision	We would look forward for early hearing of the matter and as we have suggested, if the matter is available to be pre-poned even though we have fixed September 24, 1991 as the date of hearing it may be so done.
RulingByPresentCourt	<ORG> is not affected by our order of stay in reaching its decision  10.
RulingByPresentCourt	We hope and trust that counsel for all the parties who are yet to be heard will cooperate by furnishing written notes in advance before the hearing begins so that we may be able to regulate the hearing of the matter and get reasonable time for the judgment to be prepared and de livered.
