Fact	JUDGMENT Sankar Prasad <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This is a reference under Section 64(1) of the Estate Duty Act, 1953.
Fact	It relates to the Assessment of Estate duty on the accountable persons of the estate of <NAME>, who died on the 11th July, 1959.
Fact	The deceased was the absolute owner, inter alia, of premises No.
Fact	1, Queens Park, Calcutta.
Fact	On July 1, 1954, he gifted this property by way of settlement on four trustees namely <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> for the objects mentioned in the Indenture of Trust.
Fact	The trustees were to hold the property for the absolute use and benefit of the deceased's two sons, <NAME> and <NAME>, in equal shares during their respective lives and upon the death of any of or both the sons, to be held for the use of the wife or wives of such son or sons with remainder to the male children of the two sons in equal share per stirpes.
Fact	Provision had been made in the deed of settlement empowering the trustees  to grant, amongst other things, lease of the trust property as they thought fit.
Fact	2.
Fact	On the 2nd July, 1954, the trustees leased out the upper portion of the premises to the settlor <NAME> on a monthly rental of Rs.
Fact	150/- for a period of five years.
Fact	The lease was to take effect from the 1st July, 1954, i.e.
Fact	from the same date as the date of the gift itself.
Fact	The lease expired on the 30th June, 1959, and as stated above, the deceased died 11 days thereafter, on the 11th July, 1959.
Fact	The said property continued to be occupied by the deceased as a continuing tenant for the last 11 days of his life.
Fact	3.
Fact	Before the Assistant Controller of Estate Duty two alternative contentions were raised on behalf of the accountable persons.
Fact	The first contention was that no part of the property could be deemed to pass under Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act.
Fact	The alternative contention was that only the upper portion of the house could be deemed to pass.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Assistant Controller rejected both the contentions.
RulingByLowerCourt	He took  the view that the entire property did pass on the donor's death because continued possession and enjoyment of the property was not immediately assumed by the donees and thenceforward retained to the entire exclusion of the donor or to the entire exclusion of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
Fact	4.
Fact	The Appellate Controller of Estate Duty gave his decision against the assessees on the same ground.
Fact	5.
Fact	<ORG> decided the appeal partially in favour of the applicants.
RulingByLowerCourt	It held that upon the donor's death only that part of the property which had been leased out to the donor would be deemed to pass to the accountable persons.
RulingByLowerCourt	The other portion of the property was exempt from estate duty because to that extent bona fide possession and enjoyment had had been assumed by the donees and thenceforward retained by them to the entire exclusion of the donor.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> also held that it was unrealistic to separate the property in its intangible form from the rights and interests attached to it.
RulingByLowerCourt	6.
RulingByLowerCourt	On behalf of the Controller of Estate Duty the following question of law was suggested for reference to this Court:  "Whether, oh the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the <ORG> was right in holding that in terms of Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act only that portion of the property at No.
Fact	1, Queens Park, Calcutta, which was occupied by the deceased by virtue of the lease dated the 2nd July, 1954, could be deemed to pass on his death and the value thereof only was to be included in the principal value of the estate?"
Fact	7.
Fact	The accountable persons, on the other hand, framed the following question:  "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Appellate <ORG> is right in holding that the deceased was not entirely excluded from bona fide possession and enjoyment of the part or portion of the property at 1, Queens Park, Calcutta, occupied by him by reason of the lease dated July 2, 1954, within the meaning of Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act?"
Fact	8.
Fact	The <ORG> was of opinion that  the questions raised on behalf of the parties were counterparts of each other and framed the following question of law and referred it to this Court for opinion:  "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and on a true interpretation of the provisions of Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act, the <ORG> was justified in holding that only that portion of the property at 1, Queens Park, Calcutta, which was in the occupation of the deceased could be deemed to pass on the death of the deceased and not the whole of the property?"
Argument	9.
Argument	Learned counsel for the Controller argued that having regard to the framing of the question by the <ORG> it was not open to the applicants to contend that no portion of the property was dutiable.
RatioOfTheDecision	From the statement of the case relevant portions whereof I have referred to already, it seems to me, that this argument is of no substance.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> by the question it has framed intended to cover all the aspects of this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Just as the Controller can urge that the wh ole of the property is liable to estate duty the applicants can also submit that no portion of the property is dutiable.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> it appears has taken into consideration the question suggested by the Controller and the applicants respectively and tried to frame a question of its own.
RatioOfTheDecision	Both the questions have been set out in the statement of the case and then the <ORG>'s question is put forward.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances, to my mind, it is unreasonable to hold that the applicants before us are debarred from contending that no portion of the property is liable to estate duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the applicants, has argued that, the question at issue depends upon the true construction of Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, which reads-  "Property taken under any gift whenever made shall be deemed to pass on the donor's death to the extent that bona fide possession and enjoyment of it was not immediately assumed by the donee and thenceforward retained to the entire exclusion of the  donor or of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise."
Argument	11.
Precedent	In the words of <NAME> in Attorney General v. <NAME> (1911) 2 KB 688 at p. 699:  "I think gramatically the words must be construed thus: 'Property taken under any gift, whenever made, of which property bona fide possession and enjoyment shall not have been assumed by the donee immediately upon the gift, and of which property bona fide possession and enjoyment shall not have been thenceforward retained by the donee to the entire exclusion of the donor from such possession and enjoyment or of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise."
Precedent	12.
Precedent	Therefore, according to Mr. <NAME>,' the first thing to be determined is: what is the property taken under the gift?
Precedent	The nature of the right to the property given is important.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> then relied on a passage in the judgment of Lord <NAME> of Killowen in <ORG>, New South Wales v. <ORG> (1943) AC 425 at p. 440.
Precedent	Lord <NAME> has said:  "The linking of possession w ith enjoyment as a composite object which has to be assumed by the donee indicates that the possession and enjoyment contemplated is beneficial possession and enjoyment by the object of the donor's bounty."
Precedent	14.
Precedent	Learned Counsel proceeded to quote thereafter the following passage from the speech of Lord <NAME> in <CITATION_157433067> , (1952) AC 15 at p. 29:  "I venture to think that much of the argument that was addressed to the <ORG> in this case and much of the confusion that has arisen in the past op this admittedly difficult branch of the law have been due to the failure to bear in mind that that of which enjoyment is to be assumed and retained and from which there is to be exclusion of the donor and any benefit to him by contract or otherwise is that which is truly given, a proposition which is obvious enough in the case ot two separate estates but more difficult to follow and apply where trusts are declared of a single property which are not completely exhaustive in favour of a donee."
Precedent	15.
Precedent	For the pro positions aforesaid Mr. <NAME> has also relied on the cases of <NAME> v. Commr of Stamp Duties, 1934 AC 61 and the dictum of <ORG> in the case <NAME> v. <NAME>, (1912) 13 CLR 503.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> submitted to us that having ascertained the property taken under the gift and whether the donee assumed bona fide possession and enjoyment of that property the next step is to find whether the donor had thenceforth been excluded from the possession and enjoyment of such property.
Precedent	17.
Precedent	The 'possession and enjoyment' of the property contemplated.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> says, is the legal possession and enjoyment and not factual or physical and the principle is "the cedent or donor must be entirely excluded from some enforceable right of a benefit of that which was part of his properly before the cession": in other words, an enjoyment by the donor of the same kind as before: vide Lord Advocate v. <NAME> (1906) 8 F. 579 re-affirmed in 1911-2 KB 688 (Supra).
Precedent	18.
Precedent	In order to bring the case within the scope of the Section,  it is not sufficient, states Mr. <NAME>, to take the situation as a whole and find that the donor has been allowed to enjoy substantial advantages which have some relation to the property given: it is necessary to consider the nature and source of each of the advantages and determine whether or not it is a benefit of such a kind as to come within the section: <NAME> v. Commr.
Precedent	of Stamp Duties, New South Wales 1954 AC 57.
Precedent	19.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> submits that, the possession and enjoyment from which the dpnor has not been excluded (or to which he has been inducted) must trench upon or impair and diminish the rights of the donee, in the subject-matter of the gift If a new right in the tangible property is created which does not affect the rights of the donee then the Section is not attracted.
Argument	20.
Argument	Learned counsel then urged that, in order that duty may be levied the burden of proof is upon the taxing authority who must bring the subject within the charge i.e., establish that there was not an entire exclusion of the donor or  of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
Precedent	The Section does not impose an obligation to pay the duty leaving the accountable person to bring himself within the exception: vide <NAME>'s case 1911-2 KB 688 (<NAME>).
Precedent	21.
Precedent	It follows, according to learned counsel, that if there is any doubt as to the nature of the 'possession and enjoyment' granted to the donor being that which he had before the cession then the duty is not exigible.
Precedent	22.
Precedent	In this case, Mr. <NAME> argued, the gift was of the full right of ownership which did not contain any right as a tenant at the time the gift was made.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the benefit that may have been conferred on the donor a day after was not referable to the gift itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	The source of the possession and enjoyment under the lease was the lease and not the freehold right which had been given.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before the lease is given the tenant's right does not come into existence and it would be erroneous to say that the leasehold interest in the property was comprised in the freehold i nterest before the creation of the lease.
Precedent	Hence, the lease when granted does not in any way prejudice or trench upon or impair 'posssession and enjoyment' which the lessor had before the creation of the lease.
Precedent	23.
Precedent	In the foregoing paragraphs I have set out all the points canvassed before us by learned counsel for the applicants.
Precedent	The law on the subject including the present trend of decisions of <ORG> has been summarised in <NAME>'s "Death Duties", 13th Edition, Volume 1, at pages 210 to 221.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	For purposes of the present reference the provisions in the Indian Act ( Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953) and those in the British Act ( Section 59(3) of the Finance Act (1909-1910) and in the Australian Act ( Section 11 of the Administration and Probate Act, 1903), are substantially the' same.
Precedent	The difference, that is there, relevant for us in this reference would be discussed later in this judgment.
Precedent	I propose to rely on the observations made in <NAME>'s book confining myself, however, to the po ints that arise for our consideration in the instant case.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	Estate duty is payable in respect of all gifts, made by the deceased in his life time unless, inter alia, (1) the transfer of the property to the donee was only completed; (2) the donee assumed bona fide possession and enjoyment of the property and thenceforward retained such possession and enjoyment; and (3) the deceased was thenceforward entirely excluded from the possession and enjoyment thereof and also from any benefit by contract or otherwise.
Precedent	26.
Precedent	The first condition is satisfied if the pro perty is vested in trustees for the donee, even though the donor is one of the trustees 1943 AC 425 or the sole trustee 1954 AC 57.
Precedent	This condition has undoubtedly been satisfied in the instant case.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	For the purpose of the second condition, it is necessary that the donee shall (a) assume, and (b) thenceforward retain the possession and enjoyment of the property.
Precedent	It seems that the donee, or person on his behalf, must assume and retain actual possessi on and enjoyment, and not merely the legal right thereto; <ORG> v. <ORG>.
Precedent	1956 AC 512.
Precedent	But presumably where the donor occupies land or enjoys chattels for full consideration such as the payment of a full rent, the receipt of the rent or other consideration by the donee will be regarded in English Law as possession and enjoyment by him if the death was on or after the 29th July, 1959, in view of Section 35(2) of the Finance Act, 1959, which runs thus:  "In the case of property being an interest in land, or being chattels retention or assumption by the said other person or actual occupation of the land or actual enjoyment of an incorporeal right over the land, or actual possession of the chattels shall be disregarded if for full consideration in money or money's worth."
Precedent	28.
Precedent	Our attention has not been drawn to any provision in the Indian Act similar to the provision in Section 35(2) of the English Finance Act of 1959.
Precedent	There is a finding by the  Appellate Controller at page 29 of the paper book that bonafide possession and enjoyment of the property was perhaps assumed by the donees immediately upon the gift."
Precedent	<ORG> also must have come to the same conclusion otherwise its order cannot be justified.
Precedent	29.
Precedent	In this reference the crux of the matter appears to be whether condition No.
Precedent	3 stated above has been satisfied.
Precedent	This condition has two limbs: the deceased must be entirely excluded (i) from the property and (ii) from any benefit by contract or otherwise.
Precedent	30.
Precedent	The distinction between the two limbs or conditions, which has not always been made clear in the earlier cases, some of which have been cited by Mr. <NAME>, was sharply drawn by <ORG> in <NAME> v. Commr.
Precedent	of Stamp Duties of New South Wales, 1958 AC 435, a decision on a similarly worded clause of a New South Wales Statute.
Precedent	In this case, the deceased gave his son a farming property, "Mia Mia", in 1934; in 1935 the deceased the son and another son entered into a part nership agreement as graziers and Stock dealers, on the terms, inter alia, that the deceased should be the Manager and that his decision should be final in all matters relating to the conduct of the business; that the capital should consist of the live stock and plant owned by the partners; that the business should be conducted on their respective holdings (including "Mia Mia"); and that the land held by each partner should be his sole property and he should have the sole and free right to deal with it as he might think fit.
Precedent	The partnership continued till the death of the deceased in 1952, and the property "Mia Mia" was held dutiable as a gift not to his entire exclusion.
Precedent	The main points were:  (1) the deceased was not in fact excluded from the property, but as a partner enjoyed rights over it.
Precedent	(2) There was an initial out-right gitf of the property not of the property shorn of certain rights (contrast 1934 AC 61).
Precedent	(3) It was immaterial that the partnership agreement was later than the gift, since the <ORG> on required that possession and enjoyment should thereafter be retained to the exclusion of the donor 1956 AC 512.
RatioOfTheDecision	(4) It was also immaterial that the partnership was "an independent commercial transaction", and that the donor gave full consideration for his rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	If a donor gives a donee a freehold and the donee gives the donor a lease, even at a full rent, the donor is not excluded from the property.
Precedent	((1912) 13 CLR 503, which was approved).
Precedent	(5) The question whether the partnership agreement was "related" or "referable" to the gift did not arise: the question is relevant only to the "second limb" of the clause.
Precedent	(6) It was immaterial that the donee could make no better use of the property.
Precedent	"Where the question is whether the donor has been entirely excluded from the subject matter of the gift that is the single fact to be determined.
Precedent	If he has not been so excluded, the eye need look no further to see whether his non-exclusion has been advantageous or otherwise to the donee."
Precedent	The remarks of Lord <NAME> in 19 54 AC 57 do not relate to the "first limb", but to the "second limb" of the clause.
Precedent	In this last mentioned case residence on the property in a managerial capacity had not been regarded as a "reservation" but, in the light of the <NAME> decision it cannot be considered authoritative on the "first limb".
Precedent	31.
Precedent	It appears from point No.
Precedent	4 above that <ORG> in <NAME>'s case 1958 AC 435 has fully approved of the decision of <ORG> in (1912) 13 CLR 503.
Precedent	This is the case which has to be carefully considered by us in determining whether Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, applies to the facts in the present reference.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	Section 11 of the Administration and Probate Act, 1903, (Vict) ran as follows:  "Every conveyance or assignment, gift, delivery or transfer of any estate real ot personal and whether made before or after the commencement of this Act, purporting fo operate as an immediate gift inter vivos whether by way of transfer, delivery, declaration of trust or otherwise shall-   (a) if made within twelve months immediately preceding the death of the person so dying; or  (b) if made at any time relating to any property of which property bona fide possession and enjoyment shall not have been assumed by the donee immediately upon the gift and thenceforward retained to the entire exclusion of the donor or of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise be deemed to have made the property to which the same relates chargeable with the payment of the duty payable under the Administration and Probate Acts, as though part of the estate of the donor."
Precedent	33.
Precedent	In <NAME>'s case (1912) 13 CLR 503 a testa trix was the owner in fee of land in her actual pos session and enjoyment, which she worked as a single property.
Precedent	More than 12 months before her death she gave to her three sons blocks of this land each of which was surrounded by other of the land of the testatrix.
Precedent	The gift was made by conveyances of so much of the land as was under the general law, and by transfers of So much of it as was under the  Transfer of Land Acts.
Fact	On the same day upon which the conveyances and transfers were executed, each of the sons executed a lease for five years of the land given to him to the testatrix at a fair and reasonable rent.
Fact	After the gifts the lands given continued to be in the actual physical occupation of the testatrix, and to be worked by her with her other lands in the same way as before the gifts.
Fact	The testatrix died before the expiration of the leases.
Precedent	34.
Precedent	Let us compare these facts with the salient facts in the reference before us.
Fact	On the 1st July, 1354, the deceased made a gift of the property by way of settlement on trustees.
Fact	On the 2nd July, 1954, the trustee leased out the upper portion of the premises to the deceased with effect from the 1st July, 1954, on a monthly rental of Rs.
Fact	150/-for a period of five years.
Fact	The lease expired on the 30th June, 1959; the deceased continued as a tenant; and died on the 11th July, 1959.
Precedent	35.
Precedent	In <NAME>'s case (1912) 13 CLR 503 <ORG> held that the land  so given was chargeable with the payment of the duty payable under the Administration and Probate Acts as though part of the estate of the testatrix.
Precedent	36.
Argument	Viscount <NAME> in <NAME>'s case 1958 AC 435 has fully considered the effect of the decision in <NAME>'s case, (1912) 13 CLR 503 and makes the following observations:  "As long ago as 1912 in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1912) 13 CLR 503 (a case whether a testatrix gave certain blocks of land to her son and on the same day took leases from them of the same land) <NAME>, <NAME> said: 'the lease, however, gave to the doner possession and enjoyment of the land itself, which is a simple negation of exclusion, and bring the case within the statutory liability.
Argument	It was argued that as the rent was the full value, the lessee's possession and occupation were not a benefit.
RatioOfTheDecision	The argument is unimportant because the lease, at whatsoever rent, prevents the entire exclusion of the donor'.
RatioOfTheDecision	This view of the sub-section has never been departed from and their Lordships respectfully adopt the word s of <NAME>, J. in the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is irrelevant that the donor gave (if he did give) full consideration for his right as a member of the partnership to possession and enjoyment of the land that he had given to his son.
Precedent	": Vide 1958 AC 435 at p. 447.
Precedent	37.
RatioOfTheDecision	I have given my anxious consideration to the arguments of Mr. <NAME> that unless something is carved out of the subject-matter of the gift and given to the donor the liability under the statute is not attracted.
RatioOfTheDecision	To my mind the correct view is that so far as the upper portion of premises No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1, Queens Park is concerned the lease gave to the donor possession and enjoyment of the property itself which is a negation of exclusion and brings the case within the statutory liability.
RatioOfTheDecision	The lease at whatsoever rent prevents the entire exclusion of the donor envisaged by Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953.
Precedent	This was the view of <NAME>, J. in <NAME>'s case, (1912) 13 CLR 503 approved by <ORG> in <NAME>'s case, 1958 AC 435 and it is this view w hich applies to the portion of premises No.
Precedent	1, Queens Park, leased out by the trustees to the donor.
Precedent	As to whether the other portion of the property was also affected by this lease we shall consider later in this judgment.
Precedent	38.
Precedent	The principles decided in <NAME>'s case, (1912) 13 CLR 503 has, however, been substantially negatived in England, as respects, deaths on and after the 29th July, 1959.
Precedent	Under Section 35(2) of the Finance Act, 1959, the donor's actual occupation of the land, enjoyment of an incorporeal right over the land (e.g.
Precedent	Shooting or fishing rights or a right to take timber), or possession of the chattels is to be disregarded if for full consideration in money or moneys worth.
Precedent	But as I have said no such provision exists in the Indian Statute.
Precedent	There is no difficulty, it seems, therefore, in drawing upon the principles laid down in <NAME>'s case, (1912) 13 CLR 503 for construing the relevant provisions in lection 10 of the Estate Doty Act, 1953.
Precedent	Accord-ingly, it appears, that subject to Section 3542 ) of  the English Finance Act, 1959, in the case of land and chattels, the condition regarding entire exclusion of the donor from the property would be infringed where the donor's benefit consists of any form of possession or enjoyment of the gifted property itself, or of property representing it.
Precedent	In other words, the "first limb" of the condition may be infringed if the donor occupies OK enjoys the property or its income, even though he has no right to do so which he could legally enforce against the donee.
Precedent	It is not entirely easy to reconcile this view with the decisions in <NAME>'s case, (1906) 43 ScLR.
Precedent	465 and in <NAME>'s case, (1911) 2 KB 688 (the.
Precedent	decision on which Mr. <NAME> placed strong reliance) in which cases the deceased either released with the decision in <NAME>'s case, (1906) 43 SC LR 465) or made an absolute gift of (the <NAME>), a house and furniture to a relative, without any stipulation, but continued to live there as the donee's guest until his death more than five years later, and it  was held that duty was not chargeable.
Precedent	In the <NAME> case, 1911-2 KB 688 <NAME> in his remarks at p. 700 of the report, appears to have considered that the deceased's exclusion from the property itself (the first limb of the condition) would, like his exclusion "from any benefit by contract or otherwise" (the second limb), be achieved unless he had "some enforceable right".
RatioOfTheDecision	It is submitted in <NAME>'s book that if by this expression <NAME> meant a legally enforceable right against the donee, his view cannot be sustained, so far as the first limb is concerned, in the light of the contrary authority noted above.
RatioOfTheDecision	The requirement of enforceability in this sense, derived apparently from the word "contract" in the second limb, seemingly has no relevance to the first limb.
Precedent	It may be observed, however, that although in cases like the Permanent Trustee case 1956 AC 512 the donee could at any time have terminated the arrangement under which the deceased was not excluded, nevertheless, so long as the arrangem ent continued, the deceased had a specific right; whereas in the <NAME> case, (1906) 43 ScLR 465 and the <NAME> case, 1911-2 KB 688 it appears that there was no specific arrangement at all and the deceased was simply the guest of the donee.
Precedent	In <NAME> case, (191!)
Precedent	2 KB 688 for example.
Precedent	<NAME> said (at p. 701 of the report) that there was no understanding that the deceased should be permitted to reside in the house.
Precedent	"in the sense of an arrangement, or as it is called an honourable understanding, which is not legally enforceable.
RatioOfTheDecision	I have no doubt that neither the donor nor the donee contemplated for.
RatioOfTheDecision	one moment that the former would under any circumstances be turned out of the house: but there was no discussion on the point, and the donor befors he executed the Deed was fully aware that after executing the Deed he would be at the defendant's mercy, and was fully content to rely upon the affection which the defendant Bore towards his grand-uncle and benefactor.
RatioOfTheDecision	Upon this affection, and not upon Any contra ct or honourable understanding, the donor was content to rely.
RatioOfTheDecision	.
RatioOfTheDecision	.
RatioOfTheDecision	."
RatioOfTheDecision	The difference indicated may, according to the Editor of <NAME>'s book, be sufficient to distinguish the two lines of cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also stated in this text book that, notwithstanding the sweeping character of the term "entire exclusion", there must, it is thought, be some limit to its meaning: the condition cannot be infringed merely because the donor paid occasional visits to the donee, and the <NAME> and <NAME>'s decisions ((1906) 43 Sc LR 465 and 1911-2- KB 688) if still valid, indicate that more permanent residents as a guest does not offend the condition, at any rate if there was no "honourable understanding".
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, specific rights of lodging in the property secured to the donor at the time of the transfer are a Breach of the condition: <CITATION_887364> , 1936 IR 342, where the deceased retained the right to the exclusive use of a room and "the right of his support therein."
RatioOfTheDecision	39.
RatioOfTheDecision	I have discussed alt the authorities whic h appear to me to be relevant for answering the question raised in this reference.
RatioOfTheDecision	These authorities lead me to the following conclusions:  (a) In order to avoid the mischief of Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, it must be established that the donee not only assumed bona fide possession and enjoyment of the property taken under the gift but also thenceforward retained the said property to the entire exclusion of the donor or any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
RatioOfTheDecision	(b) The single factor to be considered is whether the donor has been entirely excluded from the subject matter of the gift.
RatioOfTheDecision	(c) If the donor has not been entirely excluded then it is not at all relevant to consider whether the non-exclusion of the donor has been advantageous to the doaee or not.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, it is immaterial that the donee was receiving full consideration for what the donor was enjoying or possessing.
RatioOfTheDecision	(d) Possession and enjoyment by the donor have to be judged in the light of the factual position alone.
RatioOfTheDecision	(e) The "b enefit to him by contract or otherwise" must, however, be based on enforceable rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	39a.
RatioOfTheDecision	Applying the above principles to the facts of this case I reiterate that the upper portion of premises No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1, Queens Park, Calcutta, which was leased out by the trustees to the donor, does not escape the consequences indicated in Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have now to consider whether this section can be attracted to the whole of the property on the facts of this case.
Precedent	40.
Precedent	Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, provides as we have already seen, that property taken under any gift, whenever made, shall be deemed to pass on the donor's death to the extent that bona fide possession and enjoyment of it was not immediately assumed by the donee and thenceforward retained to the entire exclusion of the donor or of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
Precedent	41.
Precedent	The expression "to the extent" introduced into the Indian Statute is a departure from the provisions in the British and Australian Acts.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as this  aspect of the question is, therefore, concerned no assistance can be derived from decisions in other countries.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the Controller says that this expression does not indicate any quantum or degree of curtailment of interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is merely descriptive of the nature of the property given to the donee.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am not inclined to accept this argument.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is not the plain meaning of the expression at all and there is no reason why the meaning should be strained in the manner suggested by Mr. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In any event the doubt, if any, has been resolved by the statement of objects and reasons whh respect to Section 10 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, circulated to the members of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The statement runs thus:  "This clause brings under charge property given in gift, but in which the donor retains some interests by contract or otherwise.
Fact	Where the donor retains such interests in a part of the property only, estate duty is payable on that part only ....."  42.
Fact	It is abundantly clear, therefore,  that in this case estate duty is payable by the accountable persons only on that portion of premises No.
Precedent	1, Queens Park, Calcutta, which was in the occupation of the deceased as a lessee.
Precedent	43.
RulingByPresentCourt	The answer to the question framed is in the affirmative.
RulingByPresentCourt	Each party will bear and pay its own costs of the reference.
RulingByPresentCourt	Certified for the counsel as against respective clients.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	44.
RulingByPresentCourt	I agree.
