Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> & <NAME>.
Fact	Vs. RESPONDENT: <NAME> AND 6 <NAME>.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 08/10/1969 BENCH: <NAME>, K.S.
Fact	BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>, J.C. CITATION: 1970 AIR 376 1970 SCR (2) 688 1970 SCC (3) 64 ACT: Fatal Accidents Act , ss.
Fact	1A and 2-Assessment of damages-Principles for.
Fact	HEADNOTE: The appellants filed a suit claiming a sum of Rs.
Fact	30,000 as damages under ss.
Fact	1A and 2 of the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 for the death of their son aged 8 years.
Fact	The boy had stood first in Standard III and his future was claimed to be bright.
Fact	The trial court computed the damages under ss.
Fact	1A and 2 at Rs.
Fact	5,000.
Fact	In appeal <ORG> determined the damages under s. 1A at Rs.
Fact	5,000 and under s. 2 at Rs.
Fact	1,000.
Fact	In appeal by certificate before this Court.. HELD : Compulsory damages under s. IA of the Act for wrongful death must be limited strictly to the pecuniary loss to the beneficiaries and under s. 2 the measure of damages is the economic loss sustained by the estate.
RatioOfTheDecision	There can be no exact uniform rule  for measuring the value of human life and the measure of damages cannot be arrived at by precise mathematical calculations but the amount recoverable depends on the particular facts and circumstances of each case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The life expectancy of the deceased or of the beneficiaries whichever is shorter is an important factor, Since the elements which go to make up the value of the life of the deceased to' the designated beneficiaries are necessarily personal to each case in the very nature of things, there can be no exact or uniform rule for measuring the value of human life.
RatioOfTheDecision	In assessing the damages the court must exclude all considerations of matter which rest in speculations or fancy though conjecture to some extent is inevitable.
Fact	As a general rule parents are entitled to recover the present cash value of the prospec- tive service of the deceased minor child.
Fact	In addition they may receive compensation for loss of pecuniary benefits reasonably to be expected after the child attains majority.
Fact	In the matter of ascertai nment of damages, the appellate court should be slow in disturbing the findings reached by the courts below, if they have taken all the relevant facts into consideration.
Fact	[695 F-696 A] <NAME> and <ORG> v. <ORG>  A.C. 601, <NAME> v. <ORG>, 157 E.R.
Fact	3 H. & N. 448, <ORG> v. <NAME>,  A.C. 1, <ORG>  2 K.B.
Fact	461, <ORG> v. <ORG>  A.C. 601 and <CITATION_947881> .
Fact	1 S.C.R.
Fact	929, applied.
Fact	(ii) In the present case although the deceased was a bright child, it was uncertain how much assistance he would have given after growing up to his parents.
Fact	The <NAME> was a prosperous business man and hardly needed assistance.
Fact	There was no material on record as to the age of the parents and their state of health.
Fact	On the basis of the evidence on record it could not be said that the damages ordered by <ORG> were inadequate.
Fact	[696 C] JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.
Fact	2227 of  1966.
Fact	689  Appeal from the judgment and decree dated December 10, 1963 of <ORG> in Appeal Suit No.
Fact	1094 of 1959.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME>, for the appellants.
Fact	<NAME>, for respondent No.
RulingByLowerCourt	2.
RulingByLowerCourt	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for respondent No.
RulingByLowerCourt	3.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, J.
Fact	The question for decision in this appeal by certificate is short but important and that question is what are the principles governing the assessment of damages under ss.
Fact	1A and 2 of the Fatal Accidents Act (Act XIII of 1855) (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act) ?
Fact	One <NAME> son of plaintiffs 1 and 2 aged about 8 years was hit by a bus owned by the 1st defendant (who died during the pendency of this suit) and driven by the second defendant on February 26, 1956.
Fact	As a result of that accident <NAME> sustained very severe injuries.
Fact	He became unconscious almost immediately after the accident and died in the hospital on the early morning of Fe bruary 28, 1956.
Fact	<NAME> was the eldest son of plaintiffs 1 and  2.
Fact	Both the courts have come to the conclusion that he was a bright boy and was at the top of his class in his school.
Fact	At the time of his death he was in Standard III.
Fact	His parents are affluent.
Fact	They could have afforded to give him good education.
Fact	Hence there was a bright future for him.
Fact	The plaintiffs claimed a sum of Rs.
Fact	'30,000 as damages under ss.
RulingByLowerCourt	IA and 2 of the Act.
RulingByLowerCourt	The District Judge computed the damages under ss.
RulingByLowerCourt	IA and 2 at Rs.
RulingByLowerCourt	5,000.
Fact	In appeal <ORG> determined the damages under s. 1A at Rs.
Fact	5,000 and under s. 2 at Rs.
Fact	1,000.
Fact	Aggrieved by that decision, the plaintiffs have brought this appeal.
Statute	We shall first read s. 1A and 2 for the purpose of ascertaining the principles governing the assessment of the damages under those sections.
Statute	Section IA reads :  "Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by wrongful act, neglect or default and the act, neglect or default is such as would (if death had not ensued) have entitled  the party injured to maintain an action and recover damages in respect thereof, the party who would have been liable it death had not ensued shall be liable to an action or suit for damages notwithstanding the death of the person injured, and although the death shall have been caused under such circumstances as amount in law to felony or other crime.
Statute	Every such action or suit shall be for benefit of the wife, <NAME>, parent and child, if any, of the person whose death shall have been so caused, and shall be brought by and in the name of the executor, administrator or representative of the person deceased;"   Section 2 reads thus :  "Provided always that not more than one action or suit shall be brought for, and in respect of the same subject matter of complaint.
Statute	Provided that, in any such action or suit, the executor, administrator or representative of the deceased may insert a claim for and recover any pecuniary loss to the estate of the deceased occasioned by such wrongful act, neglect or default, which su m, when recovered, shall be deemed part of the assets of the estate of the deceased."
RatioOfTheDecision	The rights under the two provisions are quite distinct and independent.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the former section the damages are made payable to one or the other relations enumerated therein whereas the latter section provides for the recoupment of any pecuniary loss to the estate of the deceased occasioned by the wrongful act complained of.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sometimes, the beneficiaries under the two- provisions may be the same.
Precedent	Section IA is in substance a reproduction of the English Fatal Accidents Act s 9 and 10 Vict.
Precedent	ch.
Precedent	93 known as the Lord Campbell's Acts.
Precedent	Section 2 corresponds to one of the provisions in the English Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1934.
Precedent	The scope of s. 1 of the Campbell's Acts was considered by <ORG> in <NAME> and <NAME>.
Precedent	v. <ORG>), Dealing with the mode of asse ssment of damages under that section Lord <NAME> of Killowen observed "The general rule which has always prevail ed in regard to the assessment of damages under the Fatal Accidents Act is well-settled, namely, that any benefit accruing to a dependant by reason of the relevant death must be taken into account.
Precedent	Under those Acts the balance of loss and gain to a dependant by the death must be ascertained, the position of each dependant being considered separately."
Precedent	Lord <NAME> stated the law on the point thus "The general nature of the remedy under the Fatal Accidents general Acts has often been explained.
Precedent	These Act s provided a new "cause of action and did not merely regulate or enlarge an old one", as Lord <NAME> observed in Admiralty Commissioners v. <ORG> (1)  A. C. 601 America(1).
Precedent	The claim is, in the words of <NAME>, in The Vera Cruz (No.
Precedent	2)(2) for injuriously affecting the family of the deceased.
Precedent	It is not a claim which the deceased could have pursued in his own life time, because it is for damages suffered not by himself, but by his family after his death.
Precedent	The Act of 1846, s. 2 provides that the action is to be  for the benefit of the wife or other member of the family, and the jury (or judge) are to give such damages as may be thought proportioned to the injury resulting to such parties from the death.
Precedent	The damages are to be based on the reasonable expectation of pecuniary benefit or benefit reducible, to money value.
Precedent	In assessing the damages all circumstances which may be legitimately pleaded in diminution of the damages must be considered : <ORG> v. Jennings(4).
Precedent	The actual pecuniary loss of each individual entitled to sue can only be ascertained by balancing, on the one hand, the loss to him of the future pecuniary benefit, and, on the other, any pecuniary advantage which from whatever source comes to him by reason of the death."
Precedent	In ascertaining pecuniary loss caused to the relations mentioned in s. IA, it must be borne in mind that these damages are not to be given as solatium but are to be given with reference to a pecuniary loss.
Precedent	The damages should be calculated with reference to a r ea sonable expectation of pecuniary benefit from the continuance of the life of the deceased-see <NAME> v. <ORG> (4 In that case <NAME>, C.B.
Precedent	observed : "We do not say that it was necessary that actual benefit should have been derived, a reasonable expectation is enough and such reasonable expectation might well exist, though from the <NAME>, not being in need, the son had never done anything for him.
Precedent	On the other hand a jury certainly ought not to make a guess in the matter, but ought to be satisfied that there has been a loss of sensible and appreciable pecuniary benefit, which might have been reasonably expected from the continuance of the life."
Precedent	In <ORG> v. Jenkins(5), <ORG> observed that it is not a condition precedent to the maintenance of an action under the Fatal Accidents Act , 1846, (1)  A. C. 38,52 (3) 13 Appeal Cases.800, 804.
Precedent	(4) 157, <ORG> & N.T.
Precedent	448.
Precedent	(5) [1913] A. C. 1.
Precedent	(2) (1884) 9 P. D. 96, 101:  692  that the dece ased should have been actually earning money or money's worth or contributing to the support of the plaintiff at or before the date of the death provided that the plaintiff had a reasonable expectation of pecuniary benefit from the continuance of the life.
Precedent	Therein Lord <NAME> stated the law thus :  "I think it has been well established by authority that all that is necessary is that a reasonable expectation of pecuniary benefit should be entertained by the person who sues.
Precedent	It is quite true that the existence of this expectation is an inference of fact-there must be a basis of fact from which the inference can reasonably be drawn; but I wish to express my emphatic dissent from the proposition that it is necessary that two of the facts without which the inference cannot be drawn are, first, that the deceased earned money in the past, and second, that he or she contributed to the support of the plaintiff.
Precedent	These are, no doubt, pregnant pieces of evidence, but they are only pieces of evidence; and the necessary  inference can I think be dr awn from circumstances other than and different from them."
Precedent	in an action under the Act, it is not sufficient for the plaintiff to prove that he lost by the death of the deceased a mere speculative possibility of pecuniary benefit.
Precedent	In order to succeed, it is necessary for him to show that he has lost a reasonable proba- bility of pecuniary advantage.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> and ors.
Precedent	(1), <NAME> speaking for the Court quoted with approval the following observations of Lord <NAME> in his judgment in <ORG> v. Jenkins(2) :  " "The basis is not what has been called solatium, that is to say, damages given for injured feelings or on the ground of sentiment, but damages based on compensation for a pecuniary loss.
Precedent	But then loss may be prospective, and it is quite clear that prospective loss may be taken into account.
Precedent	It has been said that this is qualified by the proposition that the child must be shown to have been earning something before any damages can be assessed.
Precedent	I know  of no foundation in principle for that proposition either in the statute or in any doctrine of law which is applicable; nor do I think it is really established by the authorities when you examine them..............
Precedent	I have already indicated that in my view the real question is that which <NAME>, <NAME> defines in one of the cases quoted to us, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1) [1921] 2 K.B.
Precedent	461 (2) [1913] A.C. 1.
Precedent	693  <ORG>) 'Aye or No, was there a reasonable expectation of pecuniary advantage ?"
Precedent	Proceeding further the learned judge referred to the observations of <NAME>, C. B. in <ORG> v. Jenkins(2) :  " "It appears to me that it was intended by the Act to give compensation for damage sustained, and not to enable persons to sue in respect of some imaginary damage, and so punish those who are guilty of negligence by making them pay costs."
Precedent	"  Dealing with the facts of the case before him <NAME>, <NAME> observed :  "In the present action the plaintiff has not satisfied me that he had a reasonable expecta tion of pecuniary benefit.
Precedent	Ms child was under four years old.
Precedent	The boy was subject to all risks.
Precedent	of illness, disease, accident and death.
Precedent	His education and upkeep would have been a substantial burden to the plaintiff for many years if he had lived.
RatioOfTheDecision	He might or might not have turned out a useful young man.
RatioOfTheDecision	He would have earned nothing till about sixteen years of age.
RatioOfTheDecision	He might never have aided his <NAME> at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	He might have proved a mere expense.
RatioOfTheDecision	I cannot adequately speculate one way or the other.
RatioOfTheDecision	In any event he would scarcely have been expected to contribute to the <NAME>'s income, for the plaintiff even now possesses 1,0001, a year by his business and may increase it further, nor could the son have been expected to aid in domestic service.
RatioOfTheDecision	The whole matter is beset with doubts, contingencies and uncertainties.
Precedent	Equally uncertain, too, is the life of the plaintiff himself in view of his poor health.
Precedent	He might or might not have survived his son.
Precedent	That is a point for consideration, for, as was pointed out by <NAME>  J., when sitting in <ORG> in <NAME> v. <NAME> and <ORG>): "Where a claim is made under Lord <NAME>'s Acts, as it is here, it is not only a question of the expectation of the life of the claimant".
Precedent	Upon the facts of this case the plaintiff has not proved damage either actual or prospective.
Precedent	His claim is pressed to extinction by the weight or ht or multiplied contingencies.
Precedent	The action therefore fails."
Precedent	The mode of assessment of damages is not free from doubt.
Precedent	It is beset with certain difficulties.
Precedent	It depends on many impon- derables.
Precedent	The English courts have formulated certain basis for (1) (1858) 4, C. B.
Precedent	(N.S.)
Precedent	296.
Precedent	(2) [1913] A. C. 1.
Precedent	(3) 9 B. W. C. C. 188, 198.
Argument	694  calculating damages under Lord <NAME>'s Acts.
Argument	The rules ascertained by the English courts are set out in Winfield on Torts 7th Edn.
Argument	at pp.
Argument	135 and 136 as follows :  "The starting point is the amount of wages which the deceased was earning, the ascertainment of which to some ex tent may depend on the regularity of  his employment.
Argument	Then there is an estimate of how much was required or expended for his own personal and living expenses.
Argument	The balance will give a datum or basic figure which will generally be turned into a lump sum by taking a number of years' purchase.
Argument	That sum, however, has to be taxed down by having regard to the uncertainties, for instance, that the widow might have again married and thus ceased to be dependent, and other like matters of speculation and doubt".
Fact	The number of years' purchase is left flud, from twelve to fifteen has been quite a common multiple in the case of a healthy man, and the number should not be materially reduced by reason of the hazardous nature of the occupation of the deceased man.
RatioOfTheDecision	These principles are, however, only appropriate where the deceased was the bread- winner of the family.
RatioOfTheDecision	Obviously they cannot be applied, for example, where the claim is in respect of a mere expectation of pecuniary benefit from the deceased or where the decased's contribution to the family was in kind  and not in cash.
RatioOfTheDecision	In truth, each case must depend upon its own facts.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. Godwin(1), the plaintiff was the widowed mother of the deceased, an unmarried man 29 years of age, and he had contributed substantially to her upkeep.
Precedent	<ORG> held that it would be wrong to assess the damages on the same basis as if the plaintiff were the widow of the deceased, principally on the ground that it was likely that he would have married in due course and that then his contributions to his mother would have been reduced."
Precedent	The mode and manner of ascertainment of damages in fatal accidents cases came up for consideration in <NAME> v. <ORG>).
Precedent	In that case <NAME>, formulated the following tests for ascertaining the damages : (1) First estimate what was the deceased man's expectation of life if he had not been killed when he was; and (2) What sums during those years, he would have probably applied to the support of the dependant.
Precedent	In fixing the expectation of life of t he deceased regard must be had not only to his age and bodily (1) [1955] 1, W. L. R. 553, 1103.
Precedent	(2) [1951], A. C. 601:  695  health but premature termination of his life by a later accident.
Precedent	In estimating future provision for his dependant the amounts he usually applied in this way before his death are obviously relevant, and often the best evidence- available though not conclusive, since if he had survived, his means might have expanded or shrunk, and his liberality might have grown or wilted.
Precedent	After making the calculations on the basis of the two tests, his Lordship observed that deduction must further be made for the benefit accruing to the dependant from the acceleration of his interest in his estate and further allowance must be made for the possibility that the dependant himself might have died before he died.
Precedent	In <ORG> and anr.
Precedent	v. <NAME> and ors.
Precedent	(1), this <ORG> held that the actual extent of the pecuniary loss to the aggrieved party may depend on a data which cannot be a scertained accurately but must necessarily be an estimate, or even partly a conjecture.
Precedent	Shortly stated, the general principle is that the pecuniary loss can be ascertained only by balancing on the one hand the loss to the claimants of the future pecuniary benefit and on the other any pecuniary advantage which from whatever sources come to them by reason of the death, that is, +the balance of loss and gain to a dependant by the death must be ascertained.
Precedent	Therein it was further observed that where the courts below have on relevant material placed before them ascertained the amount of damages under the head of pecuniary loss to the dependants of the deceased, such findings cannot be disturbed, in second appeal except for compelling reasons.
Precedent	The law on the point arising for decision may be summed up thus : Compulsory damages under s. IA of the Act for worngful death must be limited strictly to the pecuniary loss to the beneficiaries and that under s. 2 , the measure of damages is the economic loss sustained by t he estate.
Precedent	There can be no exact uniform rule for measuring the value of the human life and the measure of damages cannot be arrived at by precise mathematical calculations but the amount recoverable depends on the particular facts and circumstances of each case.
Precedent	The life expectancy of the deceased or of the beneficiaries whichever is shorter is an important factor.
Precedent	Since the elements which go to make up the value of the life of the deceased to the designated beneficiaries are necessarily personal to each case, in the very nature of things, there can be no exact or uniform rule for measuring the value of human life.
Precedent	In assessing damages, the court must exclude all considerations of matter which rest in speculation or fancy though conjecture to some extent is inevitable.
Precedent	As a general rule parents are entitled to recover the present cash value of the prospective service of the deceased minor child.
Precedent	In addition they may receive (1)  1 S.C.R.
Precedent	929 compensation for loss of pecuniary benefits reasonably to be expect ed after the child attains majority.
Precedent	In the matter of ascertainment of damages, the appellate court should be slow in disturbing the findings reached by the courts below, if they have taken all the relevant facts into consideration.
Precedent	Now applying the above rules to the facts of the present case, it is seen that the deceased child was only 8 years old at the time of his death.
RulingByLowerCourt	How he would have turned out in life later is at best a guess.
RulingByLowerCourt	But there was a reasonable probability of his becoming a successful man in life as he was a bright boy in the school and his parents could have afforded him a good education.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is not likely that he would have given any financial assistance to his parents till he was at least 20 years old.
RulingByLowerCourt	As seen from the evidence on record, his <NAME> was a substantial person.
RulingByLowerCourt	He was in business and his business was a prosperous one.
Precedent	As things stood he needed no assistance from his son.
Precedent	There is no material on record to find out as to how old were the parents of the deceased at the time of  his death.
Precedent	Nor is there any evidence about their state of health.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the basis of the evidence on record, we are unable to come to the conclusion that the damages ordered by <ORG> are inadequate.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result this appeal fails and the same is dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	But in the circumstances of the case we make no order as to costs.
Precedent	G.C.
Precedent	Appeal dismissed.
