Fact	CASE NO.
Fact	: Writ Petition (civil) 131 of 2000 PETITIONER: <NAME> RESPONDENT: <ORG> & Anr.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 12/07/2005 BENCH: <NAME>,<NAME> & <NAME> JUDGMENT:  J U D G M E N T G.P.
Fact	MATHUR, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India has been filed by way of public interest litigation for declaring certain provisions of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act , (Act No.39 of 1983) 1983 as ultra vires the Constitution of India, null and void and consequent declaration that the Foreigners Act , 1946 and the Rules made thereunder shall apply to the State of Assam.
Fact	The second prayer made is to declare the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Rules, 1984 as ultra vires the Constitution of India and also under Section 28 of the aforesaid Act and, therefore, null and void.
Fact	Some more reliefs have been claimed which will be referred to at the appropriate stage.
Fact	The respondents to the writ petition are the <ORG> and th e State of Assam.
Fact	2.
Fact	The case set up in the writ petition is that the petitioner is a citizen of India and is ordinarily resident in the State of Assam.
Fact	He is a former President of <ORG>, which is the largest non-political students organization in the State which was responsible for leading the students movement in Assam in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
Fact	He is also a former Chairman of <ORG>, which is an umbrella organization of students' association from Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh and has been actively involved in issues concerning the rights of the people of Assam including the question of illegal migrants settled in the said State.
Fact	The issues raised in the writ petition concern all residents in the State of Assam whose rights as citizens of India have been materially and gravely prejudiced by the operation of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act , 1983 (hereinafter referred to as "the IMDT Act" ).
Fact	The principal grievance of the petitioner is that the IMDT Act is wholly arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminates against a class of citizens of India, making it impossible for citizens who are residents in Assam to secure the detection and deportation of foreigners from Indian soil.
Fact	The Foreigners Act , 1946, applies to all the foreigners throughout India, but the IMDT Act which was enacted subsequently with the professed aim of making detection and deportation of the illegal migrants residing in Assam easier has completely failed to meet even the standards prescribed in the Foreigners Act .
Fact	That apart, even those provisions of the IMDT Act which afford some measure of protection to some genuine Indian citizens against illegal migrants are not being properly enforced due to extraneous political considerations in derogation of the rights of Indian citizens living in Assam.
Fact	The result of the IMDT Act has been that a number of non-Indians, who surreptitiously entered into Assam after March 25, 1971 without  possession of valid passport, travel documents or other lawful authority to do so, continue to reside in Assam.
Fact	Their presence has changed the whole character, cultural and ethnic composition of the area and the IMDT Act creates a situation whereunder it has become virtually impossible to challenge the presence of a foreigner and to secure his detection, deportation or even deletion of his name from the electoral list as they get protection on account of the provisions of the Act.
Precedent	According to the census figures, which have been given in the writ petition, the rate of growth of the population in Assam is far more than rest of India which shows that large number of foreigners have migrated to different areas of Assam and have settled there.
Precedent	It is further averred that in view of the problem of illegal migration of foreigners into Assam and their continued presence therein, a State- wise protest movement of students was organized which continued for a long period.
Precedent	As a result of the students' movement and ensuin g negotiations, a memorandum of settlement dated 15th August, 1985 was entered into between <ORG> and <ORG> and the State of Assam, which is commonly known as "Assam Accord".
Precedent	The terms of the Accord specifically provided that steps would be taken to detect and deport illegal migrants from Assam and it also contained a clause that "the Government will give due consideration to certain difficulties expressed by <ORG> regarding the implementation of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act , 1983."
Fact	The Accord further provided that foreigners who have entered into India after 25th March, 1971 will continue to be detected, their names deleted from the electoral rolls and they will be deported from India.
Fact	In pursuance of this provision, the Citizenship Act , 1955 was amended by Act No.65 of 1985 and Section 6A was inserted with the heading "Special Provisions as to Citizenship of Persons covered by the Assam Accord."
Fact	It provides that the term "detected to be a fore igner" shall mean so detected under the Foreigners Act and the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 framed thereunder.
Fact	Under the said provision a person of Indian origin as defined under Section 6-A(3) who entered into Assam prior to 1st January, 1966 and has been resident in Assam since then is deemed to be a citizen of India.
Fact	However, if such a person entered into Assam between 1st January, 1966 and before 25th March, 1971 and has been detected to be a foreigner under the Foreigners Act then he is not entitled to be included in the electoral list for a period of 10 years from the date of detection.
Fact	This amendment of the Citizenship Act makes it clear that the question of determination or detection of a foreigner is to be governed by the provisions of the existing Central legislation, viz.
Fact	the Foreigners Act , 1946 and the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964.
Argument	3.
Argument	It is further pleaded that after signing of the Assam Accord, several assurances were given and statements have been made by <ORG> th at it is examining the failure of the IMDT Act regarding detection and deportation of foreigners and it is considering steps to repeal the Act.
Argument	A document was signed by Union <ORG> Secretary and Chief Secretary of Assam on 27th January, 1990 regarding preparation of a timeframe for class-wise implementation of the Assam Accord and it was mentioned therein that a decision on the repeal of the IMDT Act would be taken by 28th February, 1991.
Argument	In a meeting held on 20th September, 1990 between Union <ORG> Minister, Chief Minister of Assam and representatives of <ORG>, the student union reiterated their demand for repeal of the IMDT Act, which demand was noted and an assurance was given that <ORG> would initiate discussions with other political parties.
Argument	The Union <ORG> Minister in a meeting held on 11th August, 1997, wherein the petitioner was also present in his capacity as President of the <ORG>, stated that the results achieved were extremely poor.
Argument	It was decided therein that <ORG>  Minister would visit certain sectors of Indo-Bangladesh border to take stock of the situation regarding illegal immigration and the inadequacy of the measures taken to prevent such immigration.
Fact	Reference has been made to certain other meetings with the officers of <ORG> (<ORG>) on 6th April, 1998 and 23rd September, 1998 wherein it was informed that the repeal of the IMDT Act was under active consideration of the <ORG>.
Fact	It is averred in paragraph 5 (viii)(f) of the writ petition that the President of India in his address to the <ORG> in February, 1999 said that the repeal of the Act was under active consideration of the <ORG>.
Fact	A meeting was again held on 18th March, 1999 between the representatives of the <ORG> and <ORG> of Assam and also of <ORG>, wherein it was assured that the repeal of the IMDT Act was under active consideration of the Central <ORG> and measures would be taken to identify foreigners and steps will  be taken to seal the border.
Fact	Copies of the minutes of the meetings have been filed along with the writ petition.
Fact	The difficulties created by the provisions of the IMDT Act due to which it has become extremely difficult to identify an illegal migrant and pass a deportation order have also been enumerated in detail.
RulingByLowerCourt	Figures regarding the inquiries initiated since the enforcement of the Act in 1983 and total number of illegal migrants expelled have been given to which we will refer to later on.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is also pleaded that a huge number of Bangladesh nationals who have crossed over to India, have occupied vast tracts of land in sensitive international border which has very serious implication for national security.
RulingByLowerCourt	4.
Fact	<ORG> filed a counter affidavit on 18th July, 2000, which has been sworn by <NAME>, Director, <ORG>.
Fact	In paragraph 7 of this affidavit, it was stated that a proposal to repeal the IMDT Act is under consideration of <ORG>.
Fact	A copy of the repl y given by <NAME>, Minister of State in <ORG> in <ORG> on 8th March, 2000 has been filed as Annexure R-2 to the counter affidavit, wherein the Minister had said that in the State of Assam Foreigners Tribunals under the Foreigners Act , 1946 are functioning for detection of illegal migrants, who had come to the State of Assam after 1st January, 1966 and up to 24th March, 1971 and the Illegal Migrants Determination Tribunals under the IMDT Act have been constituted for detection and deportation of illegal migrants, who had entered into India on or after 25th March, 1971.
Fact	The Hon'ble Minister had further stated that the <ORG> is of the view that application of the IMDT Act to the State of Assam alone is discriminatory and a proposal to repeal the said Act is under consideration of the <ORG>.
Fact	A true copy of the latest status report filed by the <ORG> in Writ Petition No.
Fact	125 of 1998, which has been filed seeking deportation of all Bangladeshi nationals from  India, has been filed as Annexure R-1 to the Counter Affidavit and paragraphs 3 to 7 of the said status report are being reproduced below :  "3.
Fact	Continuing influx of Bangladeshi nationals into India has been on account of a variety of reasons including religious and economic.
Fact	There is a combination of factors on both sides which are responsible for continuing influx of illegal immigration from Bangladesh.
Fact	The important "Push Factors" on the Bangladesh side include: -  a) steep and continuous increase in population;  b) sharp deterioration in land-man ratio;  c) low rates of economic growth particularly poor performance in agriculture;  The "Pull Factors" on the Indian side include: -  a) ethnic proximity and kinship enabling easy shelter to the immigrants;  b) porous and easily negotiable border with Bangladesh;  c) better economic opportunities;  d) interested religious and political elements encouraging immigration;  4.
Fact	It is difficult to make a realistic estimate of the number of illegal immigrants from B angladesh because they enter surreptitiously and are able to mingle easily with the local population due to ethnic and linguistic similarities.
Fact	The demographic composition in the districts bordering Bangladesh has altered with the illegal immigration from Bangladesh.
Fact	The districts of Assam and West Bengal bordering Bangladesh have recorded growth of population higher than the national average.
Fact	The States of Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura have also recorded high rates of population growth.
Fact	Illegal immigrants from Bangladesh have also been using West Bengal as a corridor to migrate to other parts of the country.
Fact	5.
Fact	The large-scale influx of illegal Bangladesh immigrants has led to large tracts of sensitive international borders being occupied by foreigners.
Fact	This has serious implications for internal security.
Fact	6.
Fact	The types of illegal migrants are as follows: -  a) those who came with valid visa/documents and overstayed;  b) those who came with forged visa/documents; and  c) those who entered surreptitiously.
Fact	7.
Fact	During talks between the Prime Ministers of India and Bangladesh in February, 1972, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh had assured the return of all Bangladesh nationals who had taken shelter in India since March 25, 1971.
Fact	Accordingly a circular was issued by <ORG> on 30.9.1972 setting out guidelines for action to be taken in respect of persons who had come to India from Bangladesh.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to this circular, those Bangladesh nationals who had come to India before 25 March 1971 were not to be sent back and those who entered India in or after the said date were to be repatriated."
Argument	In paragraph 12 of the counter affidavit it is stated that "the basic objection of the petitioner is under consideration of <ORG> that the IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder are not effective in comparison to the Foreigners Act , 1946, which is applicable to the whole country except to the State of Assam."
Argument	In paragraph 18 of the counter affidavit it is stated that the administrative powers in  respect of the IMDT Act have been delegated to <ORG> under Section 21 of the aforesaid Act.
Fact	The second sub-paragraph of paragraph 18 and paragraph 19 of the counter affidavit are important and are being reproduced below :-  "It is further submitted that the detection/expulsion of illegal migrants under the IMDT Act, has been extremely dismal.
Fact	According to the information furnished by <ORG>, the progress in respect of detection/expulsion of illegal migrants (those who entered Assam on or after 25.3.1971 upto 30.4.2000) is as follows:  1  Total number of enquiries initiated 3,10,759 Total number of enquiries completed 3,07,955 Total number of enquiries referred to <ORG> 3,01,986 Total number of enquiries made by <ORG> 2,98,465 Total number of enquiries referred to IM(DT)s 38,631 Total number of enquiries disposed of by IM(DT)s 16,599 Total number of persons declared as illegal migrants 10,015 Total number of illegal migrants physically expelled  1,481 Total number of illegal migrants to whom expulsion order served 5,733 Total number of enquiries pending with <ORG> 3,521 Total number of enquiries pending with the Tribunal 22,072 In reply to para 9, it is submitted that the Chief Minister of Assam had requested the then Prime Minister vide his letter dated 22.6.96 regarding repeal of the IMDT Act.
Fact	The Chief Minister again reiterated for scrapping the IMDT Act, vide his letter dated 31.7.96 addressed to the Home Minister.
Fact	This view has been reconfirmed by <ORG> vide its message dated 23.4.98."
Fact	In paragraph 22 of the counter affidavit it is stated that a proposal to repeal the IMDT Act is under consideration of <ORG> and in paragraph 24 it is stated that there is need for a uniform Act for detection and deportation of foreigners for the entire country including Assam.
Fact	5.
Fact	The State of Assam filed a counter affidavit on 28th August, 2000, wherein it is stated that <ORG> has been persistently writi ng to <ORG> that the IMDT Act is operating against national interest inasmuch as in view of the stringent provisions in the IMDT Act regarding detection and deportation of foreigners, the illegal migrants whose presence are in lakhs in the State of Assam could not be deported.
Fact	<ORG> has thus been insisting upon <ORG> for repeal of the IMDT Act.
Fact	On account of unabated influx of illegal migrants from Bangladesh, a widespread movement started in Assam spearheaded by <ORG> (<ORG>) in the year 1978-79 demanding expulsion of such illegal migrants from Assam which as contended by the agitationists, not only threatened their own existence in their own State but also threatened security of the country.
Fact	Large scale satyagrah, bandhs, dharnas, etc.
Fact	were organized by <ORG> and <ORG> and the agitation got mass support from the people.
Fact	After several rounds of discussion, a memorandum of settlement known as Assam Accord was signed o n 15th August, 1985 which, amongst others, envisaged the provision for detection and deletion of name of foreigners from the electoral roll and also their deportation.
Fact	Paragraph 8 of the counter affidavit, which has a bearing on the controversy in hand, is being reproduced below :- "8.
Fact	That it is pertinent to mention that there has been a sharp increase of the Muslim population in the Respondent/State in the last few decades.
Fact	The statistical analysis of the sharp growth of Muslim population in Assam vis-`-vis Hindu population for the decades 1951-61, 1961-71 and 1971-1991 is as follows:  Year Assam Muslim Hindu 1951-1961 38.37 33.70 1961-1971 30.99 37.18 1971-1991 77.42 41.89 (*Source  <ORG>, <ORG>) The chart given above clearly indicates that Muslim population of Assam has shown a rise of 77.42% in 1971-1991, whereas Hindu population has risen by nearly 41.89% during the said period.
Fact	There are three Districts in Assam, which has borders with Bangladesh viz.
Fact	Karimganj, Cachar  and Dhubri.
Fact	All India percentage of decadal increase in population during 1981-1991 is 23.85% whereas in the Border districts of Assam namely, Karimganj shows decadal increase of 42.08%, Cachar district 47.59% and Dhubri district 56.57%.
Fact	From the above it can be assumed that the infiltration of foreigners from Bangladesh contributed significantly to the sharp increase of population in Assam."
Fact	In paragraph 9 of the counter affidavit, the major impediment in implementation of the IMDT Act have been pointed out in detail and it is also averred that the Act is discriminatory as it has been made applicable only to the State of Assam and not to other States like West Bengal, Tripura and Meghalaya, etc.
Fact	which are facing similar problem of illegal migrants.
Fact	Copies of several communications sent to <ORG> by the State of Assam requesting for repeal of the IMDT Act and also seeking appropriate amendment to the Citizenship Act , 1955, in order to declare the children of the illegal migrants entering in to India after 1971 as foreigners, have also been filed.
Fact	The difficulties in the implementation of the Act and the Rules have been pointed out which we will advert to later on.
Fact	It is further averred that despite repeated advertisements and serious efforts, <ORG> has not been able to get qualified persons to fill in the vacant posts in the <ORG>.
Fact	Figures as on 31st March, 2000, of total number of inquiries initiated, total number of persons declared as illegal migrants and the number of persons physically expelled have been given.
Fact	It is specifically pleaded that the IMDT Act is an ineffective piece of legislation and it is standing in the way of detection and deletion of post 1971 foreigners in Assam and, therefore, the same should be repealed.
Precedent	6.
Precedent	However, on 8th August, 2001, the State of Assam moved I.A.
Fact	No.5 of 2001 praying that the State of Assam be permitted to withdraw the earlier affidavit filed on 28th August, 2000 and seeking permission to place on record a new affidavit.
Fact	In this a ffidavit it is averred that general elections were held in the State of Assam in May 2001 wherein the <ORG> government had come to power replacing the government headed by <ORG>.
Fact	<ORG> in its <ORG> meeting held on 28th June, 2001 had reviewed the earlier affidavit and had obtained a legal opinion in the matter.
Argument	It is further averred that "the affidavit filed by the former <ORG> led government does not reflect the correct position of law and hence a new affidavit is required to be filed.
Argument	<ORG> is of the opinion that the IMDT Act is constitutional and there is no question of either repeal or striking down of the Act."
Argument	It is also averred that in the election manifesto of the Indian National <ORG> in the just concluded elections, it was specifically declared that the Act was introduced to save the Indian citizens from unnecessary harassment in the name of detection of foreigners and the <ORG> party is committed to oppose any move to repeal the Act.
Argument	Apart from m aking a bald statement that the IMDT Act is not arbitrary or discriminatory and denial of the averment that it makes the task of securing the detection and deportation of foreigners impossible or that non-citizens are getting protection to the detriment of bona fide citizens of India, nothing specific is stated nor any specific statement made in the earlier affidavit or the facts and figures supplied therein have been controverted.
Argument	A general statement is made that the State of Assam is making all steps for effective implementation of the IMDT Act and deportation of illegal migrants.
Argument	7.
Argument	The aforesaid I.A.
Precedent	No.5 of 2001 came up for consideration before <ORG> presided by the then Chief Justice of India on 15th October, 2001 and the relevant portion of the order passed thereon is being reproduced below :-  "An application has been filed on behalf of the State of Assam seeking permission to file "a new counter affidavit".
Fact	The application is supported by an affidavit of the Commissioner & Secretary, H <ORG>, Government of Assam.
Fact	Mr. <NAME>, learned senior counsel appearing for the <ORG> submits that he does not press prayer `a' and that the affidavit which has been filed along with this application, may be treated as `an additional affidavit'.
Fact	Learned counsel appearing for other parties have no objection to that course being adopted.
Fact	We, therefore, take on record the new affidavit as an additional affidavit filed on behalf of <ORG> of Assam and reject prayer `a'.
Fact	The application is allowed in above terms.
Fact	Mr. <NAME>, learned senior counsel prays for and is granted four weeks' time to file his response to the additional affidavit filed by the <ORG>.
Fact	All other parties may also file their response, if any, within the same period, to the additional affidavit.
Fact	List the writ petitions after four weeks before a three Judge Bench for further proceedings."
Fact	8.
Fact	<ORG> filed a counter affidavit sworn by <NAME>, Director, <ORG>, in reply to the addi tional affidavit of the State of Assam.
Fact	It is averred therein that the matter of constitutional validity of the IMDT Act does not depend on political issues, but depends on facts and legal grounds.
Fact	The relevant part of the opening part of the affidavit which has some relevance is being reproduced below :-  "In this context, it is submitted that detection of illegal migrants, who belong to the same ethnic stock as Indians is not an easy task.
Fact	However, large-scale illegal migrants from Bangladesh have not only threatened the demographic structure of the area but have seriously impaired the security of the nation, particularly in the present circumstances.
RatioOfTheDecision	The need for expeditious identification of illegal migrants is more pressing now than ever.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not a matter of dealing with a religious or linguistic group.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a question of identifying those who illegally crossed over the border and continue to live in India contrary to the Indian law and the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The facts and figures which have been stated by  <ORG> in its affidavit filed in the case titled " <CITATION_37494799>  Writ Petition (Civil) No.
RatioOfTheDecision	7 of 2001" clearly indicate that it is the existence of the IMDT Act, which has been the single factor responsible for dismal detection and expulsion of illegal migrants in Assam.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has also been pointed out that in the neighbouring <ORG>s, where this law is not in force, the process of detection (although far from satisfactory) has been far more effective than in the <ORG> of Assam.
RatioOfTheDecision	The application of IMDT Act, 1983 in Assam virtually gives the illegal migrants, in the <ORG>, preferential protection in a matter relating to the citizenship of India.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is clearly unconstitutional and violative of the principles of equality.
RatioOfTheDecision	The affidavit of the <ORG> seems to suggest that the matter has now become a political rather than a legal issue.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, it is submitted that as far as the present pleadings are concerned, the issues indicated in the present affidavit of the <ORG> under reply, are not releva nt.
RatioOfTheDecision	None of the submissions made in the connected affidavit, referred to above filed by <ORG> in connected Writ Petition No.
RatioOfTheDecision	7/2001, are controverted by the <ORG> of Assam in present affidavit.
RulingByLowerCourt	Besides this, the <ORG> has not given any fresh facts and figures, which would seek to suggest that this Act has secured the object of dealing with illegal infiltrators."
RulingByLowerCourt	In paragraph 2 it is averred that though the administrative power have been delegated to <ORG> to implement the IMDT Act but the entire expenditure incurred is being reimbursed by <ORG> to <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is further averred that since the enforcement of the IMDT Act only 1494 illegal migrants had been deported from Assam upto 30th June, 2001.
RulingByLowerCourt	In contrast 489046 number of Bangladeshi nationals had been actually deported under the Foreigners Act , 1946 from the <ORG> of West Bengal between 1983 and November 1998.
RulingByLowerCourt	The IMDT Act had failed to fulfil the objects for which it was enacted which is a pparent from the poor results and it places Assam in a different position from rest of the country where the Foreigners Act , 1946 is applicable.
RulingByLowerCourt	The provisions of the IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder are highly burdensome for the public, as a result whereof no worthwhile cooperation/response is received from the public in the detection and deportation of illegal migrants.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Act failed to achieve its object rather it generated its side effects.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is also averred that there is no justification in the application of the IMDT Act to the State of Assam when the provisions of the Foreigners Act , 1946 are quite effective for detection and deportation of illegal migrants (foreigners) which is applicable to the rest of the country.
Fact	Lastly, it is prayed that the constitutional validity of the IMDT Act may be examined in the light and background of the above facts.
Argument	9.
Argument	The petitioner has also filed a reply to the additional affidavit filed on behalf of the State of Assam, where besides reiterating his earlier  pleas, it is averred that the <ORG> representatives from North East have themselves alluded to the problem of illegal migration in the past.
RulingByLowerCourt	Reference is made to a report of the General Secretaries to the Seventh General Conference of <ORG> dated 3rd July, 1992 wherein it was recorded as under :-  "20.1 There are infiltrations  though it is a difficult task to examine the precise number.
RulingByLowerCourt	20.2 The infiltrations are not only by minorities of Bangladesh but also from the majority Muslims.
RulingByLowerCourt	In absolute terms, the number of Muslims crossing into India is likely to be much larger than that of non-Muslims.
RulingByLowerCourt	20.3 An ideological support is given to the phenomenon by the Islamic Fundamentalists creating the vision of a larger country comprising Bangladesh and the entire North East where its economic problems will be solved and security ensured.
RulingByLowerCourt	20.4 There is a direct correlation between the rise of fundamentalism and increase in influx."
Fact	It is furt her averred in paragraphs 9 and 10 of this affidavit that <ORG> in its 175th Report on the Foreigners (Amendment) Bill, 2000 (submitted in September 2000) has also dealt with this issue.
Fact	While noting that entry of illegal migrants and other undesirable aliens into India has posed a grave threat to our democracy and the security of India, especially for the eastern part of the country and Jammu and Kashmir, <ORG> has observed that influx of migrants from Bangladesh has remained unabated and has acquired frightening proportions.
Argument	<ORG> has also referred to the Report of the Governor of Assam dated 8th November, 1998 submitted to the President of India highlighting dangerous dimensions of the unprecedented migration of Bangladeshis to Assam and the security threats and strategic and economic consequences thereof.
Argument	<ORG> has proposed a draft Foreigners (Amendment) Bill, governing foreigners in India and the prevailing discriminatory position by the applic ation of IMDT Act only to the State of Assam has been sought to be done away with by providing in Section 8(1) of the draft Bill for repeal of the said Act and dissolution of the <ORG> constituted thereunder.
Argument	10.
Argument	<ORG> has filed another affidavit on 24th November, 2004 wherein it is averred that though in the earlier affidavit a prayer was made to examine the constitutional validity of the IMDT Act, but on reconsideration <ORG> has taken a decision to retain the IMDT Act in present form in its application to the State of Assam.
Argument	It is averred that allegations were made by various organizations that a large number of genuine Indian citizens were deported under the Foreigners Act , 1946 and, therefore, the IMDT Act was enforced whose purpose is to protect the genuine Indian citizens and it introduced an element of judicial scrutiny to determine the citizenship of a person.
Fact	It is further averred that upto 31st March, 2004, the number of complaints received under the IMDT Act wer e 401598 wherein inquiries were completed in 397835 cases and 376341 inquiries were referred to <ORG>.
Fact	Out of these 87222 cases were referred to <ORG> for opinion and 12180 persons were declared as illegal migrants.
Fact	This, according to the affidavit, shows that but for the element of judicial scrutiny thousands of Indians would have been deported.
Fact	It is further averred that as on 31st March, 2004, 519391 number of inquiries were completed by the <ORG> under the Foreigners Act to detect those foreigners who came into Assam during the period 1st January, 1966 to 24th March, 1971 and 29189 persons were declared as foreigners and their names were deleted from the electoral rolls.
Fact	This shows that the results obtained under the IMDT Act and the Foreigners Act were more or less comparable.
Fact	Besides above, the details of the fencing work and construction of roads done at the border have also been given.
Precedent	11.
Precedent	In I.A.
Precedent	No.6 of 2004, the copy of the memorandum submitted before <ORG> anding <ORG> on "The Illegal Migrants Laws (Replacing & Amending) Bill, 2003" on behalf of <ORG> has been filed, which contains the figures regarding inquiries conducted upto 31st August, 2003 and the same is as under :-  1.
Precedent	Total number of enquiries initiated 386249  2.
RulingByLowerCourt	Total number of enquiries completed 379521  3.
RulingByLowerCourt	Total number of enquiries referred to <ORG> 362592  4.
RulingByLowerCourt	Total number of enquiries made by the <ORG> 359733  5.
RulingByLowerCourt	Total number of enquiries referred to the IM(DT)s 76228  6.
Fact	Total number of enquiries disposed of by the IM(DT)s 21169  7.
Fact	Total number of persons declared as illegal migrants 11636  8.
Fact	Total number of illegal migrants physically expelled   9.
Fact	Total number of illegal migrants to whom expulsion orders served   10.
RulingByLowerCourt	Total number of enquiries pending with the <ORG>   11.
RulingByLowerCourt	Total number of cases pending with the <ORG> 55059 A copy of the report dated 8th November, 1998 sent by Governor of Assam, Lt. Gen. <NAME> ( Retired), former Deputy Chief of Army Staff, has also been filed along with this application.
RulingByLowerCourt	The report is a long and comprehensive one which was prepared after thorough inspection of border areas and districts, discussion with Indian Ambassador in Bangladesh and talks with political leaders.
RulingByLowerCourt	Some portions of the report are being reproduced below :- "1.
Fact	The unabated influx of illegal migrants from Bangladesh into Assam and the consequent perceptible change in the demographic pattern of the <ORG> has been a matter of grave concern.
RatioOfTheDecision	It threatens to reduce the Assamese people to a minority in their own <ORG>, as happened in Tripura and Sikkim.
RatioOfTheDecision	2.
Fact	Illegal migration into Assam was the core issue behind the Assam student movement.
Fact	It was also the prime contributory factor behind the outbreak of insurgency in the <ORG>.
Fact	Yet we have not made much tangible progress in dealing with this all important issue.
Fact	3.
Fact	There is a tendency to view illegal migration into Assam as a regional matter affecting only the people of  Assam.
Fact	It's more dangerous dimensions of greatly undermining our national security, is ignored.
Fact	The long cherished design of Greater East Pakistan/Bangladesh, making in-roads into strategic land link of Assam with the rest of the country, can lead to severing the entire land mass of the North-East, with all its rich resources from the rest of the country.
Fact	They will have disastrous strategic and economic consequences.
Precedent	MIGRATION INTO ASSAM HISTORICAL BACKGROUND  7.
Precedent	Failure to get Assam included in East Pakistan in 1947 remained a source of abiding resentment in that country.
Argument	<NAME> in his book "Myths of Independence" wrote  "It would be wrong that Kashmir is the only dispute that divides India and Pakistan, though undoubtedly the most significant.
RatioOfTheDecision	One at least is nearly as important as the Kashmir dispute, that of Assam and some districts of India adjacent to East Pakistan.
RatioOfTheDecision	To these Pakistan has very good claims".
RatioOfTheDecision	Even a <NAME> leader like Sheikh <NAME> in his book "Eastern Pakistan; i ts population & economics" observed, "Because Eastern Pakistan must have sufficient land for its expansion and because Assam has abundant forests and mineral resources, coal, petroleum etc., Eastern Pakistan must include Assam to be financially and economically strong.
Fact	CONTRIBUTORY FACTORS  10.
Fact	Besides the above considerations, there are other contributory factors facilitating infiltration from Bangladesh.
Fact	Ethnic, linguistic and religious commonality between the illegal migrants and many people on our side of the border enables them to find shelter.
RulingByLowerCourt	It makes their detection difficult.
RulingByLowerCourt	Some political parties have been encouraging and even helping illegal migration with a view to building vote banks.
RulingByLowerCourt	These immigrants are hardworking and are prepared to work as cheap labour and domestic help for lower remuneration than the local people.
RulingByLowerCourt	This makes them acceptable.
RulingByLowerCourt	Moreover, with corruption being all pervasive, corrupt officials are bribed to provide help.
Fact	Recently, a racket has been busted in Lakhimpur.
Fact	Four in dividuals were found to have been providing forged citizenship certificates and other documents to illegal migrants for the last 14 years.
Fact	ILLEGAL MIGRANTS  15.
RatioOfTheDecision	...................................... Mr. <NAME> described this as invasion using military terminology which in present geostrategic context, underscores the strategic aspect of the problem.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is unfortunate that to this day, after half a century of independence, we have chosen to remain virtually oblivious to the grave danger to our national security arising from this unabated influx of illegal migrants.
RatioOfTheDecision	Third, the prophecy that except the Sibsagar district, the Assamese people will not find themselves at home in Assam, is well on its way to becoming true as reflected by the present demographic pattern of Assam.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
Fact	Mr. <NAME>, the then Home Minister of India stated in the <ORG> on May 6, 1997 that there were 10 million illegal migrants residing in India.
Fact	Quoting <ORG>/Intelligence Bureau sources, the August 10, 1998 issue of  <ORG> has given the breakdown of these illegal migrants by States :-  West Bengal - 5.4 million Assam - 4 million Tripura - 0.8 million Bihar - 0.5 million Maharashtra - 0.5 million Rajasthan - 0.5 million Delhi - 0.3 million Making a total of - 10.83 millions Community wise growth Assam India Hindus Muslims Hindus Muslims (1) 1951-1961 33.71 38.35 20.29 25.61 (2) 1961-1971 37.17 30.99 23.72 30.85 (3) 1971-1991 41.89 77.42 48.38 55.04 EXPLANATORY NOTE  ........................
Fact	In the case of Muslims the Assam growth rate was much higher than the All India rate.
Fact	This suggests continued large scale Muslim illegal migration into Assam.
Fact	(d) Muslim population in Assam has shown a rise of 77.42 per cent in 1991 from what it was in 1971.
Fact	Hindu population has risen by nearly 41.89 per cent in this period.
Fact	(e) Muslim population in Assam has risen from 24.68 per cent in 1951 to 28.42 per cent in 1991.
Fact	As per 1991 census four districts (Dhubri, Goalpara, Barpeta and Hailakandi) have become Muslim majority distri cts.
Fact	Two more districts (Nagaon and Karimganj) should have become so by 1998 and one district Morigaon is fast approaching this position.
Precedent	20.
Precedent	The growth of Muslim population has been emphasized in the previous paragraph to indicate the extent of illegal migration from Bangladesh to Assam because as stated earlier, the illegal migrants coming into India after 1971 have been almost exclusively Muslims.
Precedent	21.
Fact	Pakistan's <ORG> has been active in Bangladesh supporting militant movement in Assam.
Fact	Muslim militant organization have mushroomed in Assam and there are reports of some 50 Assamese Muslim youths having gone for training to Afghanistan and Kashmir.
Fact	CONSEQUENCES  22.
Fact	The dangerous consequences of large scale illegal migration from Bangladesh, both for the people of Assam and more for the Nation as a whole, need to be emphatically stressed.
Precedent	No misconceived and mistaken notions of secularism should be allowed to come in the way of doing so.
Precedent	23.
Precedent	As a result of population movement from Bangladesh, the spectre lo oms large of the indigenous people of Assam being reduced to a minority in their home State.
Precedent	Their cultural survival will be in jeopardy, their political control will be a weakened and their employment opportunities will be undermined.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	The silent and invidious demographic invasion of Assam may result in the loss of the geostrategically vital districts of lower Assam.
RatioOfTheDecision	The influx of these illegal migrants is turning these districts into a Muslim majority region.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will then only be a matter of time when a demand for their merger with Bangladesh may be made.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rapid growth of international Islamic fundamentalism may provide for driving force for this demand.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this context, it is pertinent that Bangladesh has long discarded secularism and has chosen to become an Islamic State.
Precedent	Loss of lower Assam will severe the entire land mass of the North East, from the rest of India and the rich natural resources of that region will be lost to the Nation."
Precedent	12.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since extensive reference has been made in the affidavi ts to the Assam Accord, it is necessary to notice the main provisions thereof.
Fact	It is a Memorandum of Settlement which was signed on 15th August, 1985 by the President and General Secretary of <ORG> and Convenor of <ORG> on the one hand and Home Secretary, <ORG> and the Chief Secretary, <ORG> on the other, in the presence of <NAME>, the then Prime Minister of India.
Fact	The main clauses of the settlement which have a bearing on the case are being reproduced below :-  "<ORG> have all along been most anxious to find a satisfactory solution to the problem of foreigners in Assam.
Fact	<ORG> (<ORG>) and <ORG> (<ORG>) have also expressed their keenness to find such a solution.
Fact	2.
Fact	The <ORG> through their Memorandum dated 2nd February 1980 presented to the late Prime Minister Smt.
Fact	<NAME>, conveyed their profound sense of apprehensions regarding the continuing influ x of foreign nationals into Assam and the fear about adverse effects upon the political, social cultural and economic life of the <ORG>.
Fact	3.
Fact	Being fully alive to the genuine apprehensions of the people of Assam, the then Prime Minister initiated the dialogue with <ORG>.
Fact	Subsequently, talks were held at the Prime Minister's and Home Minister's levels during the period 1980-83.
Fact	Several rounds of informal talks were held during 1984.
Fact	Formal discussions were resumed in March, 1985.
Fact	4.
Fact	Keeping all aspects of the problem including constitutional and legal provisions, international agreements, national commitments and humanitarian considerations, it has been decided to proceed as follows: -  Foreigners Issue 5.1 For purposes of detection and deletion of foreigners, 1.1.1966 shall be the base date and year.
Statute	5.2 All persons who came to Assam prior to 1.1.1966, including those amongst them whose names appeared on the electoral rolls used in 1967 elections, shall be regularized.
Statute	5.3 Foreigners who came to As sam after 1.1.1966 (inclusive) and up to 24th March 1971 shall be detected in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act , 1946 and the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order 1964.
Statute	5.4 Names of foreigners so detected will be deleted from the electoral rolls in force.
Statute	Such persons will be required to register themselves before <ORG> of the respective districts in accordance with the provisions of the Registration of Foreigners Act , 1939 and the Registration of Foreigners Rules, 1939.
Statute	5.5 For this purpose, <ORG> will undertake suitable strengthening of the governmental machinery.
Statute	5.6 On the expiry of a period of ten years following the date of detection, the names of all such persons which have been deleted from the electoral rolls shall be restored.
Statute	5.7 All persons who were expelled earlier, but have since re-entered illegally into Assam, shall be expelled.
Statute	5.8 Foreigners who came to Assam on or after March 25, 1971 shall continue to be detected, deleted and expelled in accorda nce with law.
Statute	Immediate and practical steps shall be taken to expel such foreigners.
Statute	5.9 The Government will give due consideration to certain difficulties expressed by the AASU/AAGSP regarding the implementation of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by <ORG>s) Act , 1983."
Statute	Subsequent thereto the Citizenship Act , 1955 was amended and Section 6-A was introduced w.e.f.
Statute	7.12.1985.
Statute	The relevant provisions of Section 6-A are being reproduced below: -  "6(A) Special provisions as to citizenship of persons covered by the Assam Accord.
Statute	- (1) For the purposes of this section   (a) "Assam" means the territories included in the State of Assam immediately before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act , 1985;  (b) "detected to be a foreigner" means detected to be a foreigner in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act , 1946  and the Foreigners (<ORG>s) Orders, 1964 by a <ORG> constituted under the said Order;  (c) "specified territory" means the territories included in Bangladesh im mediately before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act , 1985;  (d) a person shall be deemed to be of Indian origin, if he, or either of his parents or any of his grandparents was born in undivided India;  (e) a person shall be deemed to have been detected to be a foreigner on the date on which a <ORG> constituted under the Foreigners (<ORG>s) Order, 1964 submits its opinion to the effect that he is a foreigner to the officer or authority concerned.
Statute	(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (6) and (7), all persons of Indian origin who came before the 1st day of January, 1966 to Assam from the specified territory (including such of those whose names were included in the electoral rolls used for the purposes of the General Election to the House of the People held in 1967) and who have been ordinarily resident in Assam since the dates of their entry into Assam shall be deemed to be citizens of India as from the 1st day of January, 1966.
Statute	(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (6) a nd (7), every person of Indian origin who   (a) came to Assam on or after the 1st day of January, 1966 but before the 25th day of March, 1971 from the specified territory; and  (b) has, since the date of his entry into Assam, been ordinarily resident in Assam; and  (c) has been detected to be a foreigner;  shall register himself in accordance with the rules made by <ORG> in this behalf under section 18 with such authority (hereafter in this sub-section referred to as the registering authority) as may be specified in such rules and if his name is included in any electoral roll for any <ORG> or <ORG> constituency in force on the date of such detection, his name shall be deleted therefrom.
Statute	Explanation  In the case of every person seeking registration under this sub-section, the opinion of the <ORG> constituted under the Foreigners (<ORG>s) Order, 1964 holding such person to be a foreigner, shall be deemed to be sufficient proof of the requirement under clause ) of this sub-se ction and if any question arises as to whether such person complies with any other requirement under this Sub-section, the registering authority shall: -  (i) if such opinion contains a finding with respect to such other requirement, decide the question in conformity with such finding:  (ii) if such opinion does not contain a finding with respect to such other requirement, refer the question to a <ORG> constituted under the said Order having jurisdiction in accordance with such rules as <ORG> may make in this behalf under section 18 and decide the question in conformity with the opinion received on such reference.
Statute	(4) A person registered under sub-section (3) shall have, as from the date on which he has been detected to be a foreigner and till the expiry of a period of ten years from that date, the same rights and obligations as a citizen of India (including the right to obtain a passport under the Passports Act , 1967  and the obligations connected therewith), but shall not be entitled t o have his name included in any electoral roll for any <ORG> or <ORG> constituency at any time before the expiry of the said period of ten years.
Statute	(5) A person registered under sub-section (3) shall be deemed to be a citizen of India for all purposes as from the date of expiry of a period of ten years from the date on which he has been detected to be a foreigner.
Statute	(6) ................................. (Omitted as not relevant).
Statute	(7) Nothing in sub-sections (2) to (6) shall apply in relation to any person   (a) who, immediately before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act , 1985, for year is a citizen of India;  (b) who was expelled from India before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act , 1985, under the Foreigners Act , 1946 .
Statute	(8) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this section, the provisions of this section shall have effect not withstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force."
Statute	13.
Fact	In this writ petition we are basically concerned with  the constitutional validity of the IMDT Act, which has been made applicable only to the <ORG> of Assam and that too for detection and deportation of illegal migrants, who have entered India on 25th March, 1971 or thereafter.
Fact	The IMDT Act has not been enforced in the rest of the country.
Fact	The election manifesto of a political party has no relevance and cannot be taken into consideration for judging the constitutional validity of any enactment, whether made by <ORG> or by <ORG>, as it is a purely legal issue and lies within the domain of judiciary.
Fact	14.
Fact	Before adverting to the provisions of the IMDT Act, it is necessary to have a brief look at the enactments made for dealing with foreigners.
Fact	The first enactment governing the foreigners was the Foreigners Act , 1864, which provided for the expulsion of foreigners and their apprehension, detention pending removal and for a ban on their entry into India after removal.
Fact	The situation created by the Second World War led to promulgation of Foreigners Ordinance in 193 9 which was replaced by Foreigners Act , 1940.
Statute	Section 7 of this Act read as under :-  "Burden of proof  If any question arises with reference to this Act or any order made or direction given thereunder, whether any person is or is not a foreigner or is or is not a foreigner of a particular class or description, the onus of proving that such person is not a foreigner or is not a foreigner of such particular class or description, as the case may be, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act , 1872, lie upon such person."
Statute	The legislature then enacted the Foreigners Act , 1946 which repealed the 1940 Act.
Statute	Section 2(a) of this Act defines a "foreigner" and it means a person who is not a citizen of India.
Statute	Sub-Section (1) of Section 3 lays down that <ORG> may by order make provision, either generally or with respect to all foreigners or with respect to any particular foreigner or any prescribed class or description of foreigner, for prohibiting, regulating or restrictin g the entry of foreigners into India or, their departure therefrom or their presence or continued presence therein.
Statute	Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1), sub-section (2) confers power to make wide ranging orders concerning a foreigner which have been numerated in clauses (a) to (g), which include that a foreigner shall not remain in India or in any prescribed area therein, or if he has been required by an order under this Section not to remain in India, meet from any resources at his disposal the cost of his removal from India or remain in such area as may be prescribed and shall comply with such condition as may be specified or shall be arrested or detained or confined.
Statute	Sub-section (3) provides that any authority prescribed in this behalf may with respect to any particular foreigner make orders under clause (c) or clause (f) of sub-section (2).
Statute	Section 4 confers power for directing a foreigner to be detained or confined in such place and manner as the Central Governm ent by order determine.
Statute	Section 4(3) directs that no person shall knowingly assist an internee to escape from custody or harbour an escaped internee or to give any assistance to such a foreigner.
Statute	Section 5 places restriction upon a foreigner to change his name while in India.
Statute	Section 6 casts an obligation on master of any vessel and pilot of any aircraft landing or embarking at any place in India to give particulars with respect to any passenger or members of any crew who are foreigners.
Statute	Section 7 casts a similar obligation on hotel keepers in respect of foreigners accommodated therein.
Statute	Section 12 confers power upon any authority who has been conferred power to make or give any direction under the Act to further delegate to any subordinate authority to exercise such power on its behalf.
Statute	Section 14 has been amended by Act No.
Statute	16 of 2004 and now maximum punishment under the said section is five years and also fine.
Statute	Section 14A and 14B , which have been added by the aforesaid amendment, provide for punishment wi th imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than two years but may extend to eight years.
Statute	Section 14C provides for some punishment for abetment of offences under Section 14A or 14B.
Statute	Section 9 of this Act is important and it reads as under :-  "9.
Statute	Burden of proof  If in any case not falling under section 8 any question arises with reference to this Act or any order made or direction given thereunder, whether any person is or is not a foreigner or is or is not a foreigner of a particular class or description the onus of proving that such person is not a foreigner or is not a foreigner of such particular class or description, as the case may be, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act , 1872 , lie upon such person."
RatioOfTheDecision	This Act confers wide ranging powers to deal with all foreigners or with respect to any particular foreigner or any prescribed class or description of foreigner for prohibiting, regulating or restricting their or his entry into India or their presence or continu ed presence including his arrest, detention and confinement.
RatioOfTheDecision	The most important provision is Section 9 which casts the burden of proving that a person is not a foreigner or is not a foreigner of such particular class or description, as the case may be, shall lie upon such person.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, where an order made under the Foreigners Act is challenged and a question arises whether the person against whom the order has been made is a foreigner or not, the burden of proving that he is not a foreigner is upon such a person.
Precedent	<CITATION_1025500> AIR 1961 SC 1526, the Chief Commissioner of Delhi served an order on <NAME> to leave India within three days as he was a Pakistani national.
Precedent	He challenged the order before <ORG> which set aside the order by observing that there must be prima facie material on the basis of which the authority can proceed to pass an order under Section 3(2)(c) of the Foreigners Act, 1946.
Precedent	In appeal <ORG> reversed the judgment of <ORG> holding that onus  of showing that he is not a foreigner was upon the respondent.
Precedent	15.
Statute	<ORG> has made the Foreigners (<ORG>s) Order, 1964 in exercise of powers conferred by Section 3 of the Foreigners Act.
Statute	Clause 2(1) of this Order provides that <ORG> may by order refer the question as to whether a person is or is not a foreigner within the meaning of Foreigners Act , 1946, to a <ORG> to be constituted for the purpose, for its opinion.
Statute	Clause 3(1) provides that the <ORG> shall serve on the person to whom the question relates, a copy of the main grounds on which he is alleged to be a foreigner and give him a reasonable opportunity of making a representation and producing evidence in support of his case and after considering such evidence as may be produced and after hearing such persons as may deserve to be heard, the <ORG> shall submit its opinion to the officer or authority specified in this behalf in the order of reference.
Statute	Clause 3(1-A) provides that the <ORG> shall, before gi ving its opinion on the question referred to in sub-paragraph (1-A) of paragraph 2, give the person in respect of whom the opinion is sought, a reasonable opportunity to represent his case.
Statute	Clause 4 provides that the <ORG> shall have the powers of <ORG> while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure in respect of summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath, requiring the discovery and production of any document and issuing commissions for the examination of any witness.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
RatioOfTheDecision	It needs to be emphasized that the general rule in the leading democracies of the world is that where a person claims to be a citizen of a particular country, the burden is upon him to prove that he is a citizen of that country.
Statute	In United Kingdom, the relevant provision is contained in the Immigration Act , 1971 and sub-Section (1), (8) and (9) of Section 3 thereof read as under :  "3.
Statute	 General provisions for regulation and control.
Statute	 (1) Except as otherwise provided by or under this A ct, where a person is not a British citizen  (a) he shall not enter the <ORG>ited Kingdom unless given leave to do so in accordance with the provisions of, or made under this Act;  (b) he may be given leave to enter the <ORG>ited Kingdom (or when already there, leave to remain in the <ORG>ited Kingdom) either for a limited or for an indefinite period;  (c) if he is given a limited leave to enter or remain in the <ORG>ited Kingdom, it may be given subject to conditions restricting his employment or occupation in the <ORG>ited Kingdom, or requiring him to register with the police, or both.
Statute	xxx xxx xxx xxx (8) When any question arises under this Act whether or not a person is a British citizen, or is entitled to any exemption under this Act, it shall lie on the person asserting it to prove that he is.
Statute	(9) A person seeking to enter the <ORG>ited Kingdom and claiming to have the right of abode there shall prove that he has that right by means of either   (a) a <ORG>ited Kingdom passport describing him as a British citizen of the <ORG> ited Kingdom and Colonies having the right of abode in the United Kingdom; or  (b) a certificate of entitlement."
Statute	Somewhat similar provision is contained in Immigration and Nationality Act of USA and Section 291 places the burden of proof upon the person concerned in any removal proceeding.
Statute	Section 318 provides that no person shall be naturalized unless he has been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence in accordance with all applicable provisions of the Act and the burden of proof shall be upon such person to show that he entered the United States lawfully.
Precedent	The Immigration and Refugee Protection Act, 2001 of Canada contains a provision of placing the burden upon the concerned person to establish his right to have a permanent residence in the said country.
Precedent	Section 188 of the Migration Act, 1958 of Australia provides that an officer may require a person whom the officer knows or suspects is a non-citizen to (a) show the officer evidence of being a lawful non-citizen; or (b) show the of ficer evidence of the person's identity.
Precedent	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is good and sound reason for placing the burden of proof upon the person concerned who asserts to be a citizen of a particular country.
RatioOfTheDecision	In order to establish one's citizenship, normally he may be required to give evidence of (i) his date of birth (ii) place of birth  (iii) name of his parents (iv) their place of birth and citizenship.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some times the place of birth of his grand parents may also be relevant like under Section 6-A(1)(d) of the Citizenship Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	All these facts would necessarily be within the personal knowledge of the person concerned and not of the authorities of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	After he has given evidence on these points, the <ORG> authorities can verify the facts and can then lead evidence in rebuttal, if necessary.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the <ORG> authorities dispute the claim of citizenship by a person and assert that he is a foreigner, it will not only be difficult but almost impossible for them to first lead evidence on the aforesaid points.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is in accordance  with the underlying policy of Section 106 of the Evidence Act which says that when any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though in a criminal case the general rule is that the burden of proof is on the prosecution but if any fact is especially within the knowledge of the accused, he has to lead evidence to prove the said fact.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1032822> , AIR 1956 SC 404 it was held as follows:  " Section 106 is an exception to S. 101 .
RatioOfTheDecision	The latter with its illustration (a) lays down the general rule that in a criminal case the burden of proof is on the prosecution and S. 106 is certainly not intended to relieve it of that duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the contrary, it is designed to meet certain exceptional cases in which it would be impossible, or at any rate disproportionately difficult, for the prosecution to establish facts which are "especially" within the knowledge of the accused and which he could prove without difficulty or inconvenience.
RatioOfTheDecision	The word "especially"  stresses that.
Precedent	It means facts that are pre- eminently or exceptionally within his knowledge."
Precedent	<CITATION_827880> , AIR 1974 SC 859, proceedings were initiated under Section 167(8)(c) of the Customs Act for confiscation of contraband or smuggled goods and it was observed:  "..............Since it is exceedingly difficult, if not absolutely impossible for the prosecution to prove facts which are especially within the knowledge of the accused, it is not obliged to prove them as part of its primary burden."
Precedent	(Paragraph 31) "...............On the principle underlying S. 106 Evidence Act, the burden to establish those facts is cast on the person concerned; and if he fails to establish or explain those facts, an adverse inference of facts may arise against him, which coupled with the presumptive evidence adduced by the prosecution or the <ORG> would rebut the initial presumption of innocence in favour of that person, and in the result prove him guilty.
Precedent	In state of <CITATION_575647> , 2000(8) SCC 382, it was h eld that the legislature engrafted special rule in Section 106 of the Evidence Act to meet certain exceptional cases in which not only it would be impossible but disproportionately difficult for the prosecution to establish such facts which are specially and exceptionally within the exclusive knowledge of the accused and which he could prove without difficulty or inconvenience.
Precedent	This principle was reiterated in <CITATION_1027979> ),  and <CITATION_205463> , AIR 2002 SC 2017.
Precedent	<CITATION_34325> , 1943 All ER 800, the accused was charged with having sold sugar as a whole-sale seller without the necessary licence.
Precedent	It was held that whether the accused had a licence was a fact peculiarly within his own knowledge and proof of the fact that he had a licence lay upon him.
Precedent	It was further held that in the circumstances of the case the prosecution was under no necessity to give prima facie evidence of non-existence of a licence.
Precedent	In this case reference is made to some earlier decisions and it will be useful to notice the  same.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME>, (1916) 5 M & S 206 : 14 Digest 430, the learned Judge observed as follows:  "I have always understood it to be a general rule, that, if a negative averment be made by one party, which is peculiarly within the knowledge of the other, the party within whose knowledge it lies and who asserts the affirmative, is to prove it, and not he who avers the negative."
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME>, (1993) 149 LT 190, the learned Judge held as under:  "On the principle laid down in <NAME> v. <NAME> and numerous other cases where it is an offence to do an act without lawful authority, the person who sets up the lawful authority must prove it and the prosecution need not prove the absence of lawful authority.
Precedent	I think the onus of the negative averment in this case was on the accused to prove the possession of the policy required by the statute."
Precedent	19.
Precedent	Section 9 of the Foreigners Act regarding burden of proof is basically on the same lines as the corresponding provision is in U.K. and some other Western nations and  is based upon sound legal principle that the facts which are peculiarly within the knowledge of a person should prove it and not the party who avers the negative.
Precedent	20.
Precedent	Clause (b) of sub- Section 6-A(1) of the Citizenship Act, 1955 defines "detected to be a foreigner" and it means detected to be a foreigner in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act , 1946 and the Foreigners (<ORG>s) Order 1964 by a <ORG> constituted under the said Order.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, the explanation appended to Section 6-A(2) also refers to the "opinion of the <ORG> constituted under the Foreigners (<ORG>s) Order, 1964 holding such person to be a foreigner".
RatioOfTheDecision	These provisions mandate the establishment and functioning of a <ORG> constituted under the Foreigners (<ORG>s) Order, 1964 in the State of Assam.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Additional Solicitor General and <NAME>, learned senior counsel for the State of Assam have made a statement that such <ORG>s are actually functioning in the State of Assam.
RatioOfTheDecision	21.
RatioOfTheDecision	The pro visions of the IMDT Act may now be examined.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act , 1983, reads as under :- "Statement of Objects and Reasons, - The influx of foreigners who illegally migrated into India across the borders of the sensitive eastern and north-eastern regions of the country and remained in the country poses a threat to the integrity and security of the said regions.
RatioOfTheDecision	A substantial number of such foreigners who migrated into India after the 25th day of March, 1971, have, by taking advantage of the circumstances of such migration and their ethnic similarities and other connections with the people of India, illegally remained in India without having in their possession lawful authority so to do.
RatioOfTheDecision	The continuance of these persons in India has given rise to serious problems.
RatioOfTheDecision	The clandestine manner in which these persons have been trying to pass off as citizens of India has rendered their detection difficult.
RatioOfTheDecision	After taking into account the need for  their speedy detection, the need for protection of genuine citizens of India and the interests of the general public, the President promulgated, on the 15th October, 1983, the Illegal Migrants (Determination by <ORG>) Ordinance, 1983, to provide for the establishment of <ORG>."
Statute	The Preamble of the Act which finally came into force on 25th December, 1983 reads as under :-  " An Act to provide for the establishment of <ORG> for the determination, in a fair manner, of the question whether a person is an illegal migrant to enable <ORG> to expel illegal migrants from India and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Statute	WHEREAS a good number of the foreigners who migrated into India across the borders of the eastern and north-eastern regions of the country on and after the 25th day of March, 1971, have, by taking advantage of the circumstances of such migration and their ethnic similarities and other connections with the people of India and without having in their possess ion any lawful authority so to do, illegally remained in India; AND WHEREAS the continuance of such foreigners in India is detrimental to the interests of the public of India;  AND WHEREAS on account of the number of such foreigners and the manner in which such foreigners have clandestinely been trying to pass off as citizens of India and all other relevant circumstances, it is necessary for the protection of the citizens of India to make special provisions for the detection of such foreigners in Assam and also in any other part of India in which such foreigners may be found to have remained illegally;"  Some of the provisions of the Act which are relevant are being reproduced below :-  3.
Statute	Definitions and construction of references - (1) In this Act, unless the context requires   (a) xxx xxx xxx  (b) "foreigner" has the same meaning as in the Foreigners Act , 1946;  (c) "illegal migrant" means a person in respect of whom each of the following conditions is satisfied, namely:-  (i) he has entered into India o n or after the 25th day of March, 1971;  (ii) he is a foreigner;  (iii) he has entered into India without being in possession of a valid passport or other travel document or any other lawful authority in that behalf;  4.
Statute	Overriding effect of the Act.
Statute	 (1) The provisions of this Act or of any rule or order made thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Passport (Entry into India) Act , 1920 or the Foreigners Act , 1946 or the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act , 1950 or the Passport Act , 1967 or any rule or order made under any of the said Acts and in force for the time being.
Statute	(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1), nothing in the proviso to section 2 of the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act , 1950 shall apply to or in relation to an illegal migrant as defined in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 3 .
Statute	8.
Statute	References or applications to Tribunals - (1) If any question arises as to whether any person is or is not  an illegal migrant, <ORG> may, whether such question has arisen on a representation made by such person against any order under the Foreigners Act , 1946 requiring him not to remain in India or to any other effect or has arisen in any other manner whatsoever, refer such question to a <ORG> for decision.
Statute	(2) Any person may make an application to the <ORG>, for its decision, as to whether the person whose name and other particulars are given in the application, is or is not an illegal migrant :  Provided that no such application shall be entertained by the <ORG> unless the person in relation to whom the application is made is found, or resides, within the jurisdiction of the same police station where the applicant has his place of residence.
Statute	(3) Every application made under sub-section (2) shall be made in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by affidavits sworn by not less than two persons residing within the jurisdiction of the same police stat ion in which the person referred to in the application is found, or residing, corroborating the averments made in the application, and shall also be accompanied by such fee, being not less than (ten) and not more than one hundred, rupees, as may be prescribed.
Statute	(4) Every reference under sub-section (1) shall be made to the <ORG> within the territorial limits of whose jurisdiction the place of residence of the person name in such reference is, at the time of making such reference, situated :  Provided that where such person has no place of residence, the reference shall be made to the <ORG> within the territorial limits of whose jurisdiction such person is, at the time of making such reference, found.
Statute	(5) Every application under sub-section (2) shall be made to the <ORG> within the territorial limits of whose jurisdiction the person named in such application is found or, as the case may be, has his place of residence, at the time of making such application.
Statute	8-A.
Statute	Application to <ORG>  for reference  (1) Any person may make an application to <ORG>, for decision by a <ORG>, as to whether the person whose name and other particulars are given in the application, is or is not an illegal migrant, and where any such application is received by <ORG>, it may, on the basis of any information in its possession or after making such inquiry as it deems fit, reject the application on the ground that the application is frivolous or vexatious or it does not comply with the requirements of this section or refer such application to a <ORG> for decision.
Statute	(2) Every application made under sub-section (1) shall be made in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a declaration by another person residing within the jurisdiction of the same revenue sub-division in which the applicant resides in such form as may be prescribed to the effect that the particulars mentioned in the application are true to his knowledge, information and belief  :  Provided that no person shall make more than ten such applications or more than ten such declarations.
Statute	(3) Every reference under sub-section (1) shall be made to the <ORG> within the territorial limits of whose jurisdiction the place of residence of the person named in such reference is, at the time of making such reference, situated :  Provided that where such person has no place of residence, the reference shall be made to the <ORG> within the territorial limits of whose jurisdiction such person is, at the time of making such reference, found.
Statute	10.
Statute	Procedure with respect to references under sub- section (1) of section 8  On receipt of a reference under sub-section (1) of section 8 or sub-section (1) of section 8-A the <ORG> shall serve on the person named in such reference, a notice, accompanied by a copy of such reference, calling upon him to make, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such notice, such representation with regard to the averments made in the reference, an d to produce such evidence as he may think fit in support of his defence :  Provided that if the <ORG> is satisfied that the person aforesaid was prevented by sufficient cause from making his representation and from producing evidence in support of his defence within the said period of thirty days, it may permit him to make his representation and to produce evidence in support of his defence, within such further period, not exceeding thirty days, as it may, by order, specify.
Statute	11.
Statute	Procedure with respect to applications under sub-section (2) of section 8 .
Statute	 On receipt of an application under sub-section (2) of section 8 , the <ORG> shall issue a notice, accompanied by a copy of the application, to the prescribed authority calling upon it to furnish, after making such inquiry as that authority may deem fit, a report to the <ORG> with regard to the averments made in the application.
Statute	(2) If, on a consideration of the report made by the prescribed authority, the <ORG> is satisfied that -  (a) the per son named in the application is not an illegal migrant or that the applicant is frivolous or vexatious, or has not been made in good faith, the <ORG> shall, after giving the applicant an opportunity to be heard, reject the application ;  (b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the person named in the application is an illegal migrant, the <ORG> shall issue a notice accompanied by a copy of the application, to the person named in the application, calling upon him to make, within thirty days from the date of receipt of the notice, such representation with regard to the averments made in the application and to produce such evidence as he may think fit in support of his defence ;  Provided that if the <ORG> is satisfied that the person aforesaid was prevented by sufficient cause from making his representation and from producing evidence in support of his defence within the said period of thirty days, it may permit him to make his representation and to produce evidence in support of his defence,  within such further period, not exceeding thirty days, as it may, by order, specify.
Statute	12.
Statute	Determination of the question as to whether a person is an illegal migrant - (1) The <ORG> to which a reference has been made under section 8 or section 8-A , or to which an application has been made under section 8 , shall after taking such evidence as may be adduced before it and after making such inquiry as it may think fit and after hearing such persons as it may deem appropriate, by order, decide the question as to whether the person named in such reference or application, as the case may be, is or is not an illegal migrant :  Provided that where for the determination of such question in any case the decision on any issue renders any decision on any other issue or issues unnecessary, the <ORG> may not decide such other issue or issues.
Statute	(2) Where the members of the <ORG> differ on their opinion on any point, the Chairman of the <ORG> shall state the point or points on which they differ and make a referenc e to the President of <ORG> which exercises jurisdiction in relation to the <ORG> who shall refer the case for hearing on such point or points by a member of another <ORG> under its jurisdiction and such point or points shall be decided according to the opinion of that member and such decision shall be deemed to be the decision of the <ORG>.
Statute	(3) The <ORG> shall send a copy of every order passed by it to the prescribed authority or authorities and to the parties to the reference, or the application, as the case may be.
Statute	(4) Every order passed under sub-section (1) shall, subject to the decision of <ORG>, be final and shall not be called in question in any Court.
Statute	14.
Statute	Appeal  <ORG>, or any person, named in a reference or an application under section 8 , or any application under sub-section (2) of that section or any person named in a reference under section 8-A may, if it or he is not satisfied with any order made by a <ORG> under section 12 ,  prefer an appeal to <ORG> against such order.
Statute	20.
Statute	Expulsion of illegal migrant  (1) Where a person has been determined by a <ORG>, or, as the case may be, by <ORG>, to be an illegal migrant, <ORG> shall, by order served on such person, direct such person to remove himself from India within such time and by such route as may be specified in the order and may give such further directions in regard to his removal from India as it may consider necessary or expedient.
Statute	(2) Any police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police shall have such powers as may be necessary, including the power to obtain a bond from any person for the due compliance of an order under sub- section (1) and to arrest such person in the event of his failure to furnish such bond to the satisfaction of such police officer.
Statute	22.
Statute	Section 5 provides for establishment of Illegal Migrants (Determination) <ORG>s.
Statute	Only a person who has been a District Judge or Additional Distri ct Judge is eligible for becoming a member of the <ORG> and each <ORG> has to consist of two members.
Statute	Section 9 gives the powers of the <ORG>.
Statute	Section 15 provides for establishment of an Appellate <ORG> which shall consist of not less than two and not more than six members as <ORG> may think fit and only a person who is or has been a Judge of <ORG> is eligible to be appointed as member thereof.
Statute	The Appellate <ORG> shall function in benches consisting of not less than two members.
Statute	The Memorandum of Appeal shall be accompanied by such fee not being less than Rs.25/- or more than Rs.100/-, as may be prescribed.
Statute	Section 21A provides that it shall be lawful for the police officer not below the rank of Superintendent of Police, if he is satisfied that the circumstances so require, and for reasons to be recorded in writing direct any person against whom a reference or an application has been made under this Act to enter into a bond with or without sureties for making himself  available for inquiry.
Statute	Section 25 provides that any person who contravenes or attempts to contravene or fails to comply with any order or direction given under Section 20 or harbours any such person shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to three years and with fine, which shall not be less than two thousand rupees.
Statute	The proviso to the Section empowers the <ORG> to impose lesser sentence or fine for adequate and special reasons.
Statute	23.
Statute	In exercise of powers conferred by Section 28 of the IMDT Act, <ORG> has made the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Rules, 1984 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Rules").
Statute	Rule 2(ii) defines a "competent authority" which means <ORG> and includes, where <ORG> or any officer subordinate to <ORG> or <ORG> is empowered by notification under Section 21 to exercise and discharge the powers and duties of <ORG> under Secti on 8(1) and Section 8-A(1) , such State Government or officer.
Statute	Rule 3 requires that for the purpose of making the reference in relation to any person under Section 8(1) or Section 8-A(1) to the <ORG>, the competent authority seized of the matter shall require the Superintendent of Police to direct an officer not below the rank of a Sub-Inspector of Police to make an inquiry.
Statute	Rules 4 to 7 lay down that the inquiry officer who has been directed to make an inquiry shall call upon that person (alleged illegal migrant) to give information as regards the particulars mentioned in Form-I.
Statute	He may elicit information from any other person who may be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case.
Statute	The details of the inquiry have to be entered day by day in a diary kept for the purpose setting forth the time at which any information reached him, the time at which he began and closed his enquiry and the place or places visited by him and the statement of the circumstances ascertained through such enquiry and th en he has to submit a report, in Form-II with the diary, to the immediate superior officer who shall endorse the comments thereon and submit it to <ORG>.
Statute	Rule 8 provides for constitution of <ORG> at every sub-divisional level where the <ORG>als are established and shall consist of two members, one of whom shall be Sub-divisional Magistrate and other a police officer not below the rank of a Deputy Superintendent of Police in the sub-division concerned.
Statute	<ORG> after scrutiny of the information contained in Form II has to then make its recommendations to <NAME> as to whether the person mentioned in the report is or is not an illegal migrant.
Statute	Rule 9 provides that if on recommendations of <ORG> and such further information as the competent authority may call for, it appears to that authority that the question arises as to whether any person is or is not an illegal migrant, that authority shall make a reference to the <ORG> al for its decision thereon, along with the diary, report of inquiry officer containing the endorsement of his immediate superior officer, recommendation of <ORG> and any other further information.
Statute	So a discretion has been conferred upon <ORG> whether to make a reference to the <ORG> or not.
Statute	If <ORG> chooses not to make a reference, there is no right of appeal and the alleged illegal migrant remains untouched.
Statute	He can then safely reside in Assam.
Statute	Rules 10 and 10-A provide that the application to the <ORG> under Section 8(2) shall be in Form III and to <ORG> under Section 8-A(2) in Form V. Rule 13 provides that the Superintendent of Police shall, as far as may be, follow the procedure as specified in Rules 3 to 8 while making an inquiry in respect of a notice issued to him by the <ORG> under Section 11(1) .
RatioOfTheDecision	Rules 14 to 19 lay down the procedure for filing appeals to the Appellate <ORG> which has to be in Form IV, the fee to be pa id and also the contents of the Memorandum of Appeal etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Rules, thus, contain a very stringent and time consuming procedure for holding of preliminary enquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	24.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of Section 3(1)(c) of the IMDT Act, an illegal migrant is a person with respect to whom all the three conditions, namely, (i) has entered India on or after 25th March, 1971; (ii) is a foreigner which means he is not a citizen of India; and (iii) has entered India without being in possession of a valid passport or other travel documents or any other lawful authority in this behalf, are satisfied.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, if a foreigner has entered India on or after 25th March, 1971, he would be dealt with under the IMDT Act, while as a foreigner who has entered any part of India including Assam before 25th March, 1971, would be dealt with under the Foreigners Act .
Statute	Section 4 of the IMDT Act is an overriding provision which lays down that the IMDT Act or the Rule or order made therein shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Foreig ners Act , 1946 or the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act , 1950 or the Passport Act or any Rule or Order made thereunder.
Statute	Section 8(1) confers power on <ORG> to make a reference for its decision to the <ORG> whether any person is an illegal migrant or not.
RatioOfTheDecision	This reference can also be made on a representation made by an illegal migrant against any order passed against him under the Foreigners Act not to remain in India.
RatioOfTheDecision	This provision gives special advantage to an illegal migrant in Assam, which is not available to any foreigner in rest of India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 8(2) provides that any person may make an application to the <ORG> whether any person whose name is given in the application is or is not an illegal migrant but the proviso to this sub-section imposes a restriction that such an application can be given only by a person who lives within the jurisdiction of the same police station in which the alleged illegal migrant is found or resides.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 8(3) imposes some further conditions and  restrictions, namely, that the application shall be accompanied by affidavits sworn by not less than two persons residing within the jurisdiction of the same police station in which the alleged illegal migrant is found or is residing and a Court Fee of Rs.10/- has to be paid.
RulingByPresentCourt	Section 8-A lays down that any person may make an application to <ORG> for decision by a <ORG> as to whether the person whose name and other particulars are given in the application is or is not an illegal migrant.
RulingByPresentCourt	In view of sub-section (2) of this Section, the application has to be accompanied by a declaration by another person residing within the jurisdiction of the same revenue sub-division in which the applicant resides and further conditions are imposed that no person shall make more than ten such applications or more than ten such declarations.
RulingByPresentCourt	<ORG> may, after making such inquiry, as it deems fit, reject the application on the ground that it is frivolous or vexatious.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the language u sed in Section 14 there is no right of appeal against such an order as right of appeal is conferred only against an order passed by the <ORG> under Section  12.
RatioOfTheDecision	The order of rejection of the application will enure to the benefit of the alleged illegal migrant and there being no right of appeal it will attain finality making him safe and secure.
RatioOfTheDecision	If <ORG> makes a reference it will only initiate the proceedings before the <ORG> causing no immediate prejudice to the illegal migrant and if the <ORG> ultimately holds against him, he will have a right of appeal to the Appellate <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	25.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is very important to note here that IMDT Act does not contain any provision similar to Section 9 of the Foreigners Act, 1946 regarding burden of proof.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the contrary it is conspicuously silent about it.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such circumstances a very heavy burden is cast upon the authorities of the <ORG> or the applicant to establish that a person is an illegal migrant as defined in Section 3(1)(c) of IMDT Act and i s liable for deportation.
RatioOfTheDecision	26.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rule 4 requires an inquiry officer to elicit information and particulars from the alleged illegal migrant on the points mentioned in Form I.
RatioOfTheDecision	Item No.5, 10, 11, 12 of this Form are as under:-  5.
RatioOfTheDecision	Address in the country of origin (village, police station, district and country).
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
Fact	Does the person hold any passport issued by any foreign country ?
RatioOfTheDecision	If so furnish particulars.
RatioOfTheDecision	11.
RatioOfTheDecision	What are the reasons for leaving the person's country of origin ?
RatioOfTheDecision	12.
Fact	If the person has entered into India without a passport, how the person entered India ?
Fact	(Name of village, District from which the person entered).
RatioOfTheDecision	Date of entry.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is elementary that a person who has illegally come from Bangladesh to India and is residing here for his better economic prospects or employment etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	would never disclose that he has come from Bangladesh but would assert that he is an Indian national and resides in India.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no question of his telling his date of entry or giving any information on the aforesaid point s. According to Rules 7 and 8 of the Rules, the inquiry officer has to submit a report in Form II and Item No.5, 10, 11 and 12 are exactly identical to that in Form I.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rules 10, 10-A and 10-B lay down that an application to the <ORG> under Section 8(2) shall be made in Form III, an application to <ORG> under Section 8-A(2) shall be made in Form V and a declaration under Section 8-A(2) shall be made in Forms V and VI.
RatioOfTheDecision	Curiously enough Column No.6 of Form III requires the applicant to furnish the following information regarding the alleged illegal migrant: -  (a) whether he entered India on or after 25th March, 1971;  (b) date of his entry into India;  (c) whether he is a foreigner; and  (d) whether he entered India without being in possession of a valid passport or travel document or lawful authority in that behalf.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contents of the application (form III) have to be affirmed by the applicant that what is stated in the application is true to the best of his information and belief.
RatioOfTheDecision	The app lication to <ORG> has to be made in Form V which contains a similar Column 6 with two further additions, namely;  (i) the approximate distance between the place of residence of the applicant and the alleged illegal migrant;  (ii) since when the alleged illegal migrant is staying at the said place.
RatioOfTheDecision	In Column 7 the applicant has to give details of (a) documentary; and  (b) oral evidence in his possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	The application has to be affirmed that the facts stated are true to the best of his information and belief and that he has not made more than 10 such applications.
RatioOfTheDecision	It contains a further clause to the following effect :  "I am aware that in the event of this application being found as false or made with a view to cause vexation to the person named in this application or any member of his family, I am liable to be proceeded against in accordance with law for giving false evidence."
RatioOfTheDecision	Form VI which is a declaration to be made under Section 8-A(2) by another person in corroboration of the applica tion contains a similar affirmation clause and also the clause quoted above regarding prosecution in the event the facts mentioned are found to be false.
RatioOfTheDecision	27.
RatioOfTheDecision	To give the exact date of entry into India of a Bangladeshi national, who has illegally and surreptitiously crossed the international border, is not only difficult but virtuously impossible.
RatioOfTheDecision	A citizen doing his duty towards nation of pointing out the presence of a Bangladeshi national to the authorities of the <ORG> is put under threat of criminal prosecution, if the contents of the application are found to be false.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is bound to have a cascading effect on citizens who will prefer to remain a quiet spectator to the continued influx of illegal migrants from Bangladesh rather than to take initiative in their detection or deportation.
RatioOfTheDecision	28.
RatioOfTheDecision	The analysis of the provisions of IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder clearly demonstrate that the provisions thereof are very stringent as compared to the provisions of Foreigners Act , 1946 or Foreigners (Tribun als) Order, 1964, in the matter of detection and deportation of illegal migrants.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is far more easier to secure conviction of a person in a criminal trial where he may be awarded a capital punishment or imprisonment for life than to establish that a person is an illegal migrant on account of extremely difficult, cumbersome and time consuming procedure laid down in the IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act does not contain any provision for constitution of a screening committee which has been done under the Rules and has been conferred a very wide power of rejecting complaints against which no appeal lies.
RatioOfTheDecision	The figures supplied in the initial affidavit filed by the State of Assam show that more than eighty five per cent enquiries initiated were rejected and no reference was made to the Tribunal.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, the restrictions imposed on an applicant, a citizen of India doing a national duty of pointing out the presence of an illegal migrant in Assam, that he should be resident of same police station or  same sub-division where the illegal migrant resides or is found does not carry any sense as these migrants keep moving.
RatioOfTheDecision	The requirement regarding application being accompanied by affidavits of two persons who are residents of same police station or being accompanied by declaration of another person who is resident of same sub-division or that not more than ten such applications can be filed or ten such declarations made do not serve any purpose except to create hurdles in the matter of identification and deportation of illegal migrants.
RatioOfTheDecision	Not every person feels that he owes a duty towards the nation and he should initiate proceedings for deportation of an illegal migrant.
RatioOfTheDecision	The applicant also incurs risk to his own security and safety besides spending time and energy in prosecuting the matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, there is hardly any sense in making a provision for mentioning the time and date of visit to a place by an enquiry officer in a diary.
RatioOfTheDecision	A deep analysis of the IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder would reveal t hat they have been purposely so enacted or made so as to give shelter or protection to illegal migrants who came to Assam from Bangladesh on or after 25th March, 1971 rather than to identify and deport them.
RatioOfTheDecision	29.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Additional Solicitor General and <NAME> have laid great stress on the submission that the IMDT Act provides a very fair procedure for determining whether a person is an illegal migrant or not as the said question is decided by <ORG> consisting of two members, who are or have been Additional District Judges or District Judges.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, <ORG> consists of two members, who are or have been Judge of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The argument overlooks the fact that <ORG> does not consist of any judicial member but is manned by the executive.
RatioOfTheDecision	The same is the case with <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	But <ORG> or <ORG> have the power to reject an enquiry at the threshold by not making a reference to the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fi gures supplied in the affidavits show that more than 85 per cent of the enquiries were rejected in this manner.
RatioOfTheDecision	It means that an order in favour of an alleged illegal migrant, which is not even appealable, can be passed by the executive but an order declaring a person to be illegal migrant must necessarily be passed by <ORG> with a further right of appeal to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This shows how one-sided the provisions of the IMDT Act are.
RatioOfTheDecision	They have been so made that they only result in giving advantage and benefits to an illegal migrant and not for achieving the real objective of the enactment, namely, of detection and deportation of a Bangladeshi national who has illegally crossed the border on or after 25th March, 1971.
RatioOfTheDecision	30.
RatioOfTheDecision	The State of Assam in its affidavit filed on 24.8.2000 has pointed out some practical problems in the implementation of the IMDT Act due to which the Act has not become effective and the results are extremely poor, which are as under: - "i) The onus of proof as illegal  migrants lies on the prosecution under IMDT Act which is opposed to the Foreigners Act , 1946 under which the onus is on the suspected foreigners.
RatioOfTheDecision	ii) There is no provision in IMDT Act for compelling the suspect to furnish particulars required in Form No.
RatioOfTheDecision	I of IMDT Rules and a corresponding penal provision to deal with such suspect in case of their refusal to furnish information as required in Rule  5.  iii) There is no provision for compelling suspect witness to furnish information or statement to Police Officers making enquiries and as such taking recourse to action under Section 176  is difficult in case of refusal.
RatioOfTheDecision	iv) The Enquiry Officer is not empowered to search home/premises of the suspects nor can he compel the suspects to produce documents to give necessary information.
RatioOfTheDecision	v) Prosecution witnesses do not appear before the <ORG> for want of necessary allowances.
RatioOfTheDecision	vi) Once the <ORG>s declares a person as an illegal migrant, he/she becomes untraceable either before the notice is served or during  the grace period of 30 days.
RatioOfTheDecision	vii) Notice/summons issued by the <ORG> cannot easily be served due to frequent changes of address by the illegal migrants in unknown destinations.
RatioOfTheDecision	viii) The expulsion orders cannot be served as the illegal migrants, with frequent change of address, merge with the people of similar ethnic origin.
RatioOfTheDecision	ix) It is provided in the Act that for filing complaint against a suspected person to determine as to whether he is an illegal migrant, two persons living within the same Police Station are required to file the complaint with filing of affidavit and an amount of Rs.10.00 which was originally Rs.25.00 is to be deposited with the application.
RatioOfTheDecision	This provision of the Act puts a severe restriction in filing any complaint against an illegal migrant.
RatioOfTheDecision	x) The <ORG> after observing a long drawn procedure declare a person as illegal migrant who is to be deported from India but such deportation becomes very difficult as the illegal migrants change their residence and shift to some other ar eas.
RatioOfTheDecision	xi) There are instances of strong resistance to the Enquiry Officer conducting enquiries against the illegal migrants in Char areas (riverain areas) and other locations where there is heavy concentration of immigrant population."
RatioOfTheDecision	31.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 25 of the IMDT Act provides that contravention or non- compliance of any order made under Section 20 shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may not be less than one year but which may extend to three years and with fine, which shall not be less than two thousand rupees.
RatioOfTheDecision	The proviso to this section says that the <ORG> may for special and adequate reasons to be recorded impose the sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than one year or a fine of less than two thousand rupees.
Fact	Section 14 of the Foreigners Act (after amendment by Act No.16 of 2004) provides for imprisonment which may extend to five years and fine.
Fact	Section 14-A and 14-B of the Foreigners Act provide punishment for a term which shall not be less than two years but may extend to eight  years and also fine which shall not be less than ten thousand rupees but may extend to fifty thousand rupees.
Fact	Section 14-C provides the same punishment for abetment of any one of the above offences.
Fact	Thus, the punishment provided under the Foreigners Act is more severe than under the IMDT Act.
Precedent	32.
Fact	The foremost duty of <ORG> is to defend the borders of the country, prevent any trespass and make the life of the citizens safe and secure.
Fact	The Government has also a duty to prevent any internal disturbance and maintain law and order.
Fact	<NAME> in his masterly work "The Arthashastra" has said that a King had two responsibilities to his state, one internal and one external, for which he needed an army.
Fact	One of the main responsibilities was <NAME> or protection of the state from external aggression.
Fact	The defence of the realm, a constant preoccupation for the king, consisted not only of the physical defence of the kingdom but also the prevention of treachery, revolts and rebellion.
Fact	The physical defensive  measures were the frontier posts to prevent the entry of undesirable aliens and forts in various parts of the country.
Precedent	(Arthashastra by <NAME>  translated by <NAME>, who was in Indian Foreign Service and ambassador of India in several countries  published by <ORG>  1992 Edn.
Precedent	 page 676).
Precedent	The very first entry, namely, Entry 1 of List I of the Seventh Schedule is "Defence of India and every part thereof including preparation for defence and all such acts as may be conducive in times of war to its prosecution and after its termination of effective demobilization".
Precedent	In fact entries 1 to 4 of List I of Seventh Schedule mainly deal with armed forces.
Precedent	Article 355 of the Constitution of India reads as under :-  355.
Precedent	Duty of the <ORG> to protect States against external aggression and internal disturbance.
Precedent	 It shall be the duty of the <ORG> to protect every State against external aggression and internal disturbance and to ensure that the Government of every State is carried on in accordance  with the provisions of this Constitution."
Precedent	The word "aggression" is a word of very wide import.
Precedent	Various meanings to the word have been given in the dictionaries, like, "an assault, an inroad, the practice of setting upon anyone; an offensive action or procedure; the practice of making attacks or encroachments; the action of a nation in violating the rights especially the territorial rights of another nation; overt destruction; covert hostile attitudes."
Precedent	The word "aggression" is not to be confused only with "war".
Precedent	Though war would be included within the ambit and scope of the word "aggression" but it comprises many other acts which cannot be termed as war.
Precedent	In <ORG> 1938 (3) All ER 80, the following definition of "war" as given in <ORG> has been quoted with approval :-  "When differences between States reach a point at which both parties resort to force, or one of them does acts of violence, which the other chooses to look upon as a breach of the peace, the relat ion of war is set up, in which the combatants may use regulated violence against each other, until one of the two has been brought to accept such terms as his enemy is willing to grant."
Precedent	In Introduction to International Law by <NAME> (Chapter 18) it is said that the war in its most generally understood sense is a contest between two or more states primarily through their armed forces, the ultimate purpose of each contestant or each contestant group being to vanquish the other or others and impose its own conditions of peace.
Precedent	With the passage of time, the nature of war itself has become more distinctly clarified as a formal status of armed hostility, in which the intention of the parties, the so-called animus belligerendi may be a decisive factor.
Precedent	The modern war may involve not merely the armed forces of belligerent states but their entire population.
Precedent	In Essays on Modern Law of War by <NAME> the author has said that in accordance with traditional international law, "war is a contention between two or  more States through their armed forces, for the purpose of overpowering each other and imposing such conditions of peace as the victor pleases.".
Precedent	The framers of the Constitution have consciously used the word "aggression" and not "war" in Article 355.
Precedent	33.
Fact	Article 1 of Chapter 1 of the Charter of <ORG> gives the purposes of <ORG> and the first is to maintain international peace and security, and to that end : to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace, and for the suppression of acts of aggression or other breaches of peace, and to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity with the principles of justice and international law, adjustments or settlement of international disputes or situations which might lead to a breach of peace.
Fact	On account of use of expression "acts of aggression" it was thought necessary to define "aggression" and explain what it exactly means.
Fact	<ORG> defined the term "aggression" a s any act of aggression including the employment of armed forces by a <ORG> against another <ORG> for any purpose other than national or collective self-defence or any decision by a competent organ of <ORG>.
Fact	But at the 1954 <ORG>, there was opposition to this definition.
Fact	In his book Conflict through Consensus by Julius Stone (1977 Edn.
Fact	), the author has described in great detail how after twenty years of discussion by <ORG> a consensus was arrived at and an agreed definition was approved by <ORG> <ORG> on 12th April, 1974 vide Resolution No.3314 (XXIX).
Argument	The Soviet Union pressed for inclusion of "ideological aggression" and also "the promotion of the propaganda of fascist- nazi views, racial and national exclusiveness, hatred and contempt for other peoples."
Argument	Iran pressed for inclusion of "indirect aggression, of intervention in another <ORG>'s internal or foreign affairs", including "direct or indirect incitement to civil war, threats to internal sec urity, and incitement to revolt by the supply of arms or by other means.".
Argument	Many States wanted the definition to include "economic aggression".
Argument	<NAME> of India advocated that in view of "modern techniques of coercion" the definition of aggression should have included "economic pressures" and "interventionary and subversive operations."
Argument	(See page 97 of the book) <NAME> has quoted the following comments of <NAME>, on the notion of aggression : "aggression, in the present state of international relations, is not a concept that can be enclosed in any definition whatsoever : the finding that it has occurred in any concrete case involves political and military judgments and a subjective weighing of motives that make this in each instance a strictly individual matter."
Argument	Rapporteur <NAME> explained to <ORG> that a determination of aggression "can only be given in each concrete case in conjunction with all constitutive elements of the concept of the definition".
Precedent	According to the author what needs also to be kept in mind is that this is precisely because the "aggression" notion is a fact value complex of such vast range.
Precedent	(See pages 108-109 of the book).
Precedent	Therefore, "aggression" is a word of very wide import having complex dimensions and would to a large extent depend upon fact situation and its impact.
Precedent	34.
Precedent	There was a large scale influx of persons from the then East Pakistan into India before the commencement of December 1971 Indo-Pak war.
Precedent	On 3rd November, 1971, one month before the actual commencement of the war, Dr. <NAME>, India's representative in the <ORG>, made a statement, wherein he said :- ".................The first consideration, in the view of the Indian Delegation, is that aggression must be comprehensively defined.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though precision may be the first virtue of a good definition, we would not like to sacrifice the requirement of a comprehensive definition of aggression at any cost.
RatioOfTheDecision	T here are many reasons for holding this view.
RatioOfTheDecision	Aggression can be of several kinds such as direct or indirect, armed in nature or even without the use of any arms whatsoever.
RatioOfTheDecision	There can be even direct aggression without arms.......................................... We would accordingly support the categorical view expressed by the distinguished delegate of Burma, the U.K. and others that a definition of aggression excluding indirect methods would be incomplete and therefore dangerous.
RatioOfTheDecision	............................................................................................ ............................................................................................ For example, there could be a unique type of bloodless aggression from a vast and incessant flow of millions of human beings forced to flee into another State.
RatioOfTheDecision	If this invasion of unarmed men in totally unmanageable proportion were to not only impair the economic and political well-being of the receiving victim State but to threaten its very existe nce, I am afraid, Mr. <NAME>, it would have to be categorized as aggression.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a case, there may not be use of armed force across the frontier since the use of force may be totally confined within one's territorial boundary, but if this results in inundating the neighbouring State by millions of fleeing citizens of the offending State, there could be an aggression of a worst order............................................... What I wish to convey, Mr. <NAME>, is the complexity of the problem which does not permit of a four-line definition of aggression much less an ad-interim declaration on it."
Precedent	(See Vol.
Precedent	11 (1971) Indian Journal of International Law p. 724) This shows that the stand of our country before the <ORG> was that influx of large number of persons from across the border into India would be an act of aggression.
Precedent	35.
Precedent	In the later part of nineteenth century large number of Chinese labour had started going to U.S.A.
Precedent	The U.S. <ORG> passed legislations to restrict and then to totally sto p their entry in the country.
Precedent	One such Chinese labourer who had earlier worked there for over ten years and had a certificate to that effect came back after a visit to his home in China but was detained in the ship in San Francisco port.
Fact	His habeas corpus petition was dismissed by the circuit court and then an appeal was taken to <ORG>.
Fact	Certain observations made in the judgment, which is reported in 130 U.S. 581 (<NAME> vs. United States), are very illuminating and are being reproduced below: -  "To preserve its independence, and give security against foreign aggression and encroachment, is the highest duty of every nation, and to attain these ends nearly all other considerations are to be subordinated.
RatioOfTheDecision	It matters not in what form such aggression and encroachment come, whether from the foreign nation acting in its national character or from vast hordes of its people crowding in upon us.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG>, possessing the powers which are to be exercised for protection and security, is clothed  with authority to determine the occasion on which the powers shall be called forth; and its determination, so far as the subjects affected are concerned, are necessarily conclusive upon all its departments and officers.
RatioOfTheDecision	If, therefore, <ORG>, through its legislative department, considers the presence of foreigners of a different race in the country, who will not assimilate with us to be dangerous to its peace and security, their exclusion is not to be stayed because at the time there are no actual hostilities with the nation of which the foreigners are subjects.
RatioOfTheDecision	The existence of war would render the necessity of the proceeding only more obvious and pressing.
RatioOfTheDecision	The same necessity, in a less pressing degree, may arise when war does not exist and the same authority which adjudges the necessity in one case must also determine it in the other."
RatioOfTheDecision	(Emphasis supplied) China is not contiguous to U.S.A.
RatioOfTheDecision	The journey from a port in China to San Francisco, as the facts of the case show, used to  take about a month and having regard to the expenses involved and the carrying capacity of a ship in those days (1870-90) the number of Chinese labour coming to U.S.A. would have been miniscule compared to the influx of people from Bangladesh.
Precedent	Yet <ORG> viewed it as "aggression" and the presence of such foreigners as "dangerous to peace and security of the nation".
Precedent	36.
Precedent	Lord <NAME> in his book "The Due Process of Law" has written an "Introduction" to Part Five  "Entrances and Exits" (page  155) and the opening paragraph thereof reads as under :  "In recent times England has been invaded  not by enemies  nor by friends  but by those who seek England as a haven.
Precedent	In their own countries there are poverty, disease and no homes.
Precedent	In England there is social security  a national health service and guaranteed housing  all to be had for the asking without payment and without working for it.
Precedent	Once here, each seeks to bring his relatives to join him.
Precedent	So they multiply exceedingly."
Precedent	(Emphasis suppli ed) Thus, one of the most respected and learned Judges of the recent times has termed the influx of persons from erstwhile colonies of Britain into Britain as "invasion".
Precedent	The word "aggression" is, therefore, an all comprehensive word having very wide meaning.
Precedent	Its meaning cannot be explained by a straight jacket formula but will depend on the fact situation of every case.
Precedent	The definition of "aggression" as adopted by UN General Assembly Resolution 3314 (XXIX) was, however, for a limited purpose, namely, where <ORG> or <ORG> could interfere and adopt measures in the event of an aggression by one nation against another and the acts enumerated therein which may amount to aggression cannot restrict or curtail the meaning or the sense in which the word "aggression" has been used in Article 355 of the Constitution.
Precedent	37.
Precedent	The very first sentence of the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the IMDT Act says "the influx of foreigners who illegally migrated into India across the bo rders of the sensitive Eastern and North- Eastern regions of the country and remained in the country poses a threat to the integrity and security of the said region."
Precedent	It further says that "continuance of these persons in India has given rise to serious problems."
Precedent	The Preamble of the Act says that "the continuance of such foreigners in India is detrimental to the interests of the public of India."
Precedent	The Governor of Assam in his report dated 8th November, 1998 sent to the President of India has clearly said that unabated influx of illegal migrants of Bangladesh into Assam has led to a perceptible change in the demographic pattern of the <ORG> and has reduced the Assamese people to a minority in their own <ORG>.
Precedent	It is a contributory factor behind the outbreak of insurgency in the <ORG> and illegal migration not only affects the people of Assam but has more dangerous dimensions of greatly undermining our national security.
Precedent	Pakistan's <ORG> is very active in Bangladesh supporting militants in Assam.
Precedent	Muslim militant  organizations have mushroomed in Assam.
RatioOfTheDecision	The report also says that this can lead to the severing of the entire landmass of the north-east with all its resources from the rest of the country which will have disastrous strategic and economic consequences.
RatioOfTheDecision	The report is by a person who has held the high and responsible position of Deputy Chief of the Army Staff and is very well equipped to recognize the potential danger or threat to the security of the nation by the unabated influx and continued presence of Bangladeshi nationals in India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Bangladesh is one of the world's most populous countries having very few industries.
RatioOfTheDecision	The economic prospects of the people in that country being extremely grim, they are too keen to cross over the border and occupy the land wherever it is possible to do so.
RatioOfTheDecision	The report of the Governor, the affidavits and other material on record show that millions of Bangladeshi nationals have illegally crossed the international border and have occupied vast tracts of land like "Char land" barren  or cultivable land, forest area and have taken possession of the same in the State of Assam.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their willingness to work at low wages has deprived Indian citizens and specially people in Assam of employment opportunities.
RatioOfTheDecision	This, as stated in the Governor's report, has led to insurgency in Assam.
RatioOfTheDecision	Insurgency is undoubtedly a serious form of internal disturbance which causes grave threat to the life of people, creates panic situation and also hampers the growth and economic prosperity of the State of Assam though it possesses vast natural resources.
RatioOfTheDecision	38.
RatioOfTheDecision	This being the situation there can be no manner of doubt that the State of Assam is facing "external aggression and internal disturbance" on account of large scale illegal migration of Bangladeshi nationals.
RatioOfTheDecision	It, therefore, becomes the duty of <ORG> to take all measures for protection of the State of Assam from such external aggression and internal disturbance as enjoined in Article 355 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having regard to this constitutional mandate, the  question arises whether the Union of India has taken any measures for that purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	39.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have considered the provisions of the Foreigners Act , Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 and also the IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder in considerable detail in the earlier part of the judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	They clearly demonstrate that the procedure under the Foreigners Act and also under the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 is far more effective in identification and deportation of foreigners as compared to the procedure under the IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder.
RatioOfTheDecision	There being no corresponding provision like Section 9 of the Foreigners Act which places the burden of proof upon the person concerned who claims to be an Indian citizen, which is absolutely essential in relation to the nature of inquiry being conducted regarding determination of a person's citizenship (where the facts on the basis of which an opinion is to be formed and a decision is taken are entirely within the knowledge of the said person) has made  the task of the law enforcement agencies of the State not only difficult but virtually impossible.
RatioOfTheDecision	The IMDT Act has been so enacted and the Rules thereunder have been so made that innumerable and unsurmountable difficulties are created in the matter of identification and deportation of illegal migrants.
RatioOfTheDecision	No elaborate discussion on this aspect is required as the figures disclosed in the affidavits filed by <ORG> and <ORG> speak for themselves.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though inquiries were initiated in 310759 cases under the IMDT Act but out of this only 10015 persons were declared as illegal migrants and finally only 1481 illegal migrants were physically expelled upto 30th April, 2000.
RatioOfTheDecision	This comes to less than half per cent of the cases initiated.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the State of West Bengal, where the Foreigners Act is applicable, 489046 persons were actually deported between 1983 and November 1998, which is a lesser period and even this result was termed as unsatisfactory in the counter affidavit filed by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, there cannot be even a slightest doubt that the application of the IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder in the State of Assam has created the biggest hurdle and is the main impediment or barrier in identification and deportation of illegal migrants.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the contrary, it is coming to the advantage of such illegal migrants as any proceedings initiated against them under the said provision which, as demonstrated above, almost entirely ends in their favour, enables them to have a document having official sanctity to the effect that they are not illegal migrants.
RatioOfTheDecision	As already discussed, the presence of such a large number of illegal migrants from Bangladesh, which runs into millions, is in fact an "aggression" on the State of Assam and has also contributed significantly in causing serious "internal disturbances" in the shape of insurgency of alarming proportion making the life of the people of Assam wholly insecure and the panic generated thereby has created a fear psychosis.
RatioOfTheDecision	This has resulted in seriously h ampering the growth of the State of Assam although it has vast natural resources as people from rest of the country have a general perception that it is a disturbed area and this factor has resulted in not generating any employment opportunity which has contributed to a large measure in giving rise to insurgency.
RatioOfTheDecision	The impact is such that it not only affects the State of Assam but it also affects its sister States like Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland, etc.
Precedent	as the route to the said places passes through the State of Assam.
Precedent	40.
Precedent	The <ORG> enacted the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act , 1950 and the Statement of Objects and Reasons thereof reads as under: -  "During the last few months a serious situation had arisen from the immigration of a very large number of East Bengal residents into Assam.
Argument	Such large migration is disturbing the economy of the Province, besides giving rise to a serious law and order problem.
Argument	The Bill seeks to confer necessary powers on <ORG> to deal with the s ituation."
Argument	The Preamble to the aforesaid Act says: -  " An Act to provide for the expulsion of certain immigrants from Assam."
Statute	Section 2 of this Act lays down that if <ORG> is of opinion that any person or class of persons, having been ordinarily resident in any place outside India, has or have, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, come into Assam and that the stay of such person or class of persons in Assam is detrimental to the interest of the general public of India or of any section thereof or of any Scheduled Tribe in Assam, <ORG> may by order direct such person or class of persons to remove himself or themselves from India or Assam and give such further direction in regard to his or their removal from India.
Statute	Proviso of this Section says that it will not apply to any person who on account of civil disturbances or the fear of such disturbances in any area now forming part of Pakistan has been displaced from his place of residence in such area and who ha s been subsequently residing in Assam.
Statute	Section 3 confers power on <ORG> to delegate the powers and duties conferred upon it by Section 2 to any officers subordinate to the <ORG>.
Precedent	It may be noted that the reference to the word "East Bangal" in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the aforesaid Act, which came into force on 1st March, 1950, meant East Pakistan, which is the present Bangladesh.
Precedent	Realising the serious law and order problem created by migration from East Pakistan and the serious situation arising therefrom the said Act was enacted and conferred very wide powers upon the <ORG> to direct removal of any person outside India.
Precedent	However, on account of Section 4 of the IMDT Act the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act , 1950 has been superseded and the provisions of the said Act have ceased to apply to the State of Assam.
Precedent	Thus by enacting the IMDT Act the <ORG> has divested the <ORG> of the power to remove migrants from Bangladesh, whose presence  was creating serious law and order problem, which fact had been realized by <ORG> as early as in 1950.
Precedent	The IMDT Act instead of maintaining peace has only revived internal disturbance.
Precedent	41.
Precedent	Another important enactment, whose provisions have been superseded by Section 4 of the IMDT Act, is The Passport (Entry into India) Act , 1920.
Statute	Sub-section (1) of Section 3 of this Act conferred power upon <ORG> to make rules requiring that persons entering India shall be in possession of passports and for all matters ancillary or incidental to that purpose.
Statute	Sub-section (2) of this Section says that without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1), the rules may prohibit the entry into India or any part thereof of any person who has not in his possession a passport issued to him and also prescribe the authorities by whom passports must have been issued or renewed and the conditions which they must comply for the purposes of the Act.
Statute	Sub-section (3) lays down t hat the rules made under this Section may provide that any contravention thereof or of any order issued under the authority of any such rule shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine or with both.
Statute	Section 4 says that any officer of police not below the rank of Sub-Inspector and any officer of the customs department empowered by a general or special order of <ORG> in this behalf may arrest without warrant any person who has contravened or against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that he has contravened any rule or order made under Section 3 .
Statute	Section 5 provides that <ORG> may, by general or special order, direct the removal of any person from India who, in contravention of any rule made under Section 3 prohibiting entry into India without passport, has entered therein, and thereupon any officer of the Government shall have all reasonable powers necessary to enforce such direction.
Precedent	By virtue of the power conferred by this A ct, all such nationals of Bangladesh, who have entered India without a passport, could be arrested without a warrant by a police officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector.
Precedent	<ORG> also had the power to direct removal of any such person who had entered India in contravention of a rule made under Section 3 prohibiting entry into India without a passport.
Precedent	However, Section 4 of the IMDT Act has stripped <ORG> of its power of removal of such person from India and also the power of arrest of such person without warrant possessed by a police officer of the rank of Sub-Inspector or above.
Precedent	42.
Precedent	The above discussion leads to irresistible conclusion that the provisions of the IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder clearly negate the constitutional mandate contained in Article 355 of the Constitution, where a duty has been cast upon the Union of India to protect every State against external aggression and internal disturbance.
Precedent	The IMDT Act which contravenes Article 355 of the Constitutio n is, therefore, wholly unconstitutional and must be struck down.
Precedent	43.
Argument	<NAME>, learned senior counsel appearing for the writ petitioner, has submitted that the application of the IMDT Act to the State of Assam alone is wholly discriminatory and violates Article 14 of the Constitution as the classification made is not founded upon any intelligible differentia and there is no nexus between the basis of the classification and the object of the IMDT Act.
Argument	Reliance has been placed on a Seven Judge Bench decision of this Court in <CITATION_1905739> AIR 1955 SC 191 and some other cases in support of this submission.
Argument	<NAME>, learned Additional Solicitor General and also Shri <NAME>, learned senior counsel appearing for the State of Assam, have submitted that the classification made on the basis of historical facts and/or geographical criteria is a perfectly valid classification and the petitioner cannot complain of violation of Article 14 on the ground that the IMDT Act has been made ap plicable only to the State of Assam.
Argument	It has been further urged that a classification made whereunder an Act is made applicable only to some of the Districts in a State or even to a part of a District on account of some geographical consideration would be perfectly valid and would not offend Article 14 of the Constitution in any manner.
Argument	In support of this submission, learned counsel have placed reliance on several decisions namely, <CITATION_1628> AIR 1955 SC 334, <CITATION_697311> AIR 1955 SC 795, <CITATION_294497> AIR 1959 SC 609, <CITATION_779491> AIR 1960 SC 457 and <CITATION_1422425> 2001 (4) SCC 325.
Precedent	We do not consider it necessary to refer to all the cases cited by learned counsel for the parties as the principle enunciated therein is basically the same and it will suffice to refer to only one such decision, namely, <NAME> (supra), where <NAME>,J.
Precedent	(as His Lordship then was) held as under :  "In considering the validity of the impugned statute on the ground that it violates Article 14 i t would first be necessary to ascertain the policy underlying the statute and the object intended to be achieved by it.
Precedent	In this process the preamble to the Act and its material provisions can and must be considered.
Precedent	Having thus ascertained the policy and the object of the Act the court should apply the dual test in examining its validity: Is the classification rational and based on intelligible differentia; and, has the basis of differentiation any rational nexus with its avowed policy and object?
Precedent	If both these tests are satisfied, the statute must be held to be valid; and in such a case the consideration as to whether the same result could not have been better achieved by adopting a different classification would be foreign to the scope of the judicial enquiry.
Precedent	If either of the two tests is not satisfied, the statute must be struck down as violative of Article 14."
Precedent	44.
Precedent	Section 8(1) of the IMDT Act says that if any question arises as to whether any person is or is not an illegal migrant, the Central Governm ent may, whether such question has arisen on a representation made by such person against an order under the Foreigners Act , 1946 requiring him not to remain in India or to any other effect or has arisen in any other manner whatsoever, refer such question to a <ORG> for decision.
Precedent	This provision gives very special and advantageous right to an illegal migrant.
Precedent	Even though an order may have been passed under the Foreigners Act against an illegal migrant, he gets a right to make a representation to <ORG> for making a reference to the <ORG>, which will then proceed in accordance with IMDT Act having a further right of appeal to the Appellate <ORG>.
Precedent	There being no provision like Section 9 of the Foreigners Act regarding burden of proof in the IMDT Act, the whole complexion of the case will change in favour of the illegal migrant.
Precedent	This right is not available to any other person similarly situate against whom an order under the Foreigners Act may have been passed, if he is in any other part  of India other than the State of Assam.
Precedent	45.
Precedent	As mentioned earlier, the influx of Bangladeshi nationals who have illegally migrated into Assam pose a threat to the integrity and security of north-eastern region.
Precedent	Their presence has changed the demographic character of that region and the local people of Assam have been reduced to a status of minority in certain districts.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such circumstances, if the <ORG> had enacted a legislation exclusively for the State of Assam which was more stringent than the Foreigners Act , which is applicable to rest of India, and also in the State of Assam for identification of such persons who migrated from the territory of present Bangladesh between 1st January, 1966 to 24th March, 1971, such a legislation would have passed the test of Article 14 as the differentiation so made would have had rational nexus with the avowed policy and objective of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the mere making of a geographical classification cannot be sustained where the Act instead of achieving the object of  the legislation defeats the very purpose for which the legislation has been made.
RatioOfTheDecision	As discussed earlier, the provisions of the Foreigners Act are far more effective in identification and deportation of foreigners who have illegally crossed the international border and have entered India without any authority of law and have no authority to continue to remain in India.
RatioOfTheDecision	For satisfying the test of Article 14 , the geographical factor alone in making a classification is not enough but there must be a nexus with the objects sought to be achieved.
RatioOfTheDecision	If geographical consideration becomes the sole criteria completely overlooking the other aspect of "rational nexus with the policy and object of the Act" it would be open to the legislature to apply enactments made by it to any sub- division or district within the <ORG> and leaving others at its sweet will.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is not the underlying spirit or the legal principle on which Article 14 is founded.
Precedent	Since the classification made whereby IMDT Act is made applicable only to the S tate of Assam has no rational nexus with the policy and object of the Act, it is clearly violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and is liable to be struck down on this ground also.
Precedent	46.
Argument	<NAME>, learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also urged that the reports of the Governor and also the earlier counter affidavits filed by <ORG> and <ORG> show that the whole demographic pattern of the <ORG> has undergone a change and the local people of Assam have been reduced to a minority in their own State on account of large influx of illegal migrants from Bangladesh.
Argument	According to learned counsel, this amounts to violation of the rights guaranteed under Article 29(1) of the Constitution as the people of Assam have a fundamental right to conserve their language, script or culture.
Precedent	Undoubtedly, Article 29(1) confers a fundamental right on all sections of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its o wn to conserve the same and any invasion of this right would be ultra vires.
Precedent	The enforcement of the IMDT Act has no doubt facilitated to a very large extent the illegal migrants from Bangladesh to continue to reside in Assam, who on account of their huge number affect the language, script and culture of the local people.
Precedent	However, we do not wish to express any concluded opinion whether on the fact situation the IMDT Act can be thus said to be violating Article 29(1) of the Constitution as the necessary factual basis for determination of this question has not been laid in the pleadings.
Precedent	47.
Argument	<NAME>, learned senior counsel for the petitioners in Writ Petition No.7 of 2001 ( <CITATION_37494799> .
Argument	), wherein a prayer has been made to issue a direction to <ORG> that the IMDT Act should be made applicable to whole of India, requested that he may be heard on the question of vires of the IMDT Act, as the decision on the said point will have a serious impact on the writ petition in which he is appe aring as counsel.
Argument	We have, therefore, heard <NAME> on the limited point regarding the constitutional validity of the IMDT Act.
Argument	Learned counsel has submitted that though some of the Articles in Part III of the Constitution dealing with fundamental rights like Article 19(1)(d) and (e) would not apply to a foreigner, yet he is entitled to the protection of Article 21 as the application of the said Article is not confined to citizens alone.
Argument	Learned counsel has submitted that in view of the clear mandate of Article 21 that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law, there has to be a fair procedure for expulsion of foreigners.
Argument	According to the learned counsel, the IMDT Act lays down a fair procedure, namely determination by a judicial <ORG> of the question of citizenship of a person and his deportation.
Argument	It has thus been submitted that the IMDT Act which seeks to achieve this object meets the requirements of Article 21 of the Constitu tion and thus its validity cannot be impugned.
Argument	The learned Additional Solicitor General and <NAME>, during the course of their arguments, have also laid great stress on the fact that the IMDT Act has been enacted to give protection to genuine Indian citizens and to save their harassment.
Argument	It is not possible to accept the submission made.
Precedent	The view taken by this Court is that in a criminal trial where a person is prosecuted and punished for commission of a crime and may thus be deprived of his life or liberty, it is not enough that he is prosecuted in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law but the procedure should be such which is just, fair and reasonable.
Precedent	This principle can have no application here for the obvious reason that in the matter of identification of a foreigner and his deportation, he is not being deprived of his life or personal liberty.
Precedent	The deportation proceedings are not proceedings for prosecution where a man may be convicted or sentenced.
Precedent	The Foreigners Act and the Foreign ers (Tribunals) Order, 1964 are applicable to whole of India and even to the State of Assam for identification of foreigners who have entered Assam between 1st January, 1966 and 24th March, 1971 in view of the language used in Section 6-A of Citizenship Act.
Precedent	It is, therefore, not open to <ORG> or State of Assam or for that matter anyone to contend that the procedure prescribed in the aforesaid enactment is not just, fair and reasonable and thus violative of Article 21 of the Constitution.
Precedent	In our opinion, the procedure under the Foreigners Act and the Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 is just, fair and reasonable and does not offend any constitutional provision.
Precedent	48.
Precedent	We consider it necessary here to briefly notice the law regarding deportation of aliens as there appears to be some misconception about it and it has been argued with some vehemence that aliens also possess several rights and the procedure for their identification and deportation should be detailed and elaborate in order to ensure fairne ss to them.
Precedent	49.
Precedent	In Introduction to International Law by <NAME> (1st Indian re-print 1994) in Chapter 12 (page 348), the law on the points has been stated thus: -  "Most states claim in legal theory to exclude all aliens at will, affirming that such unqualified right is an essential attribute of soverign government.
Precedent	The courts of Great Britain and the United <ORG>s have laid it down that the right to exclude aliens at will is an incident of territorial sovereignty.
Precedent	Unless bound by an international treaty to the contrary, states are not subject to a duty under international law to admit aliens or any duty thereunder not to expel them.
Precedent	Nor does international law impose any duty as to the period of stay of an admitted alien."
Precedent	Like the power to refuse admission this is regarded as an incident of the <ORG>'s territorial sovereignty.
Precedent	International law does not prohibit the expulsion enmasse of aliens.
Precedent	(page 351).
Precedent	Reference has also been made to Article 13 of the International Covenant of 1966 on Civil and Pol itical Rights which provides that an alien lawfully in the territory of a <ORG> party to the Covenant may be expelled only pursuant to a decision reached by law, and except where compelling reasons of national security otherwise require, is to be allowed to submit the reasons against his expulsion and to have his case reviewed by and to be represented for the purpose before the competent authority.
Precedent	It is important to note that this Covenant of 1966 would apply provided an alien is lawfully in India, namely, with valid passport, visa etc.
Precedent	and not to those who have entered illegally or unlawfully.
Precedent	Similar view has been expressed in Oppenheim's International Law (Ninth Edn.
Precedent	1992  in paragraphs 400, 401 and 413).
Precedent	The author has said that the reception of aliens is a matter of discretion, and every <ORG> is by reason of its territorial supremacy, competent to exclude aliens from the whole or any part of its territory.
Precedent	In paragraph 413 it is said that the right of <ORG>s to expel aliens is generally recognized.
Precedent	It  matters not whether the alien is only on a temporary visit, or has settled down for professional business or any other purposes on its territory, having established his domicile there.
Precedent	A belligerent may consider it convenient to expel all hostile nationals residing or temporarily staying within its territory; although such a measure may be very harsh on individual aliens, it is generally accepted that such expulsion is justifiable.
Precedent	Having regard to Article 13 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966, an alien lawfully in a State's territory may be expelled only in pursuance of a decision reached in accordance with law.
Precedent	50.
Precedent	In <NAME> vs. <NAME> (1947) 1 K.B.
Precedent	41, it was said that the King under the Constitution of United Kingdom is under no obligation to admit into the country or to retain there when admitted, any alien.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every alien in the United Kingdom is there only because his presence has been licensed by the King.
RatioOfTheDecision	It follows that at common law the King can at will withdraw his lic ense and cause the <ORG> to expel the alien, whether enemy or friend.
Precedent	For holding so reliance was placed on Attorney-General for Canada vs. <NAME> [1906] AC 542, where Lord <NAME> said: -  "One of the rights possessed by the <ORG> power in every state is the right to refuse to permit an alien to enter that state, to annex what conditions it pleases to the permission to enter it, and to expel or deport from the state, at pleasure, even a friendly alien, especially if it considers his presence in the state opposed to its peace, order, and good government, or to its social or material interests."
Precedent	In <NAME> vs. United States 1930 U.S. 581, the United State <ORG> Court held :  "The power of exclusion of foreigners being an incident of sovereignty belonging to <ORG>, as a part of those sovereign powers delegated by the Constitution, the right to its exercise at any time when, in the judgment of the Government, the interests of the country require it, cannot be granted  away or restrained on behalf of any one.
Precedent	The powers of Government are delegated in trust to the United States, and are incapable of transfer to any other parties.
Precedent	They cannot be abandoned or surrendered.
Precedent	Nor can their exercise be hampered, when needed for the public good, by any considerations of private interest.
Precedent	The exercise of these public trusts is not the subject of barter or contract."
Precedent	This principle was reiterated in <NAME> vs. United States 149 U.S. 698, where the court ruled: -  "The government of each state has always the right to compel foreigners who are found within its territory to go away, by having them taken to the frontier.
RatioOfTheDecision	This right is based on the fact that, the foreigner not making part of the nation, his individual reception into the territory is matter of pure permission, of simple tolerance, and creates no obligation.
RatioOfTheDecision	The exercise of this right may be subjected, doubtless, to certain forms by the domestic laws of each country; but the right exists none the less, universally re cognized and put in force."
RatioOfTheDecision	........................................................................................... "The order of deportation is not a punishment for crime.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not a banishment, in the sense in which that word is often applied to the expulsion of a citizen from his country by way of punishment.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is but a method of enforcing the return to his own country of an alien who has not complied with the conditions upon the performance of which the government of the nation, acting within its constitutional authority and through the proper departments, has determined that his continuing to reside here shall depend.
Precedent	He has not, therefore, been deprived of life, liberty or property, without due process of law; and the provisions of the Constitution, securing the right of trial by jury, and prohibiting unreasonable searches and seizures, and cruel and unusual punishments, have no application."
Precedent	51.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. United States 142 US 652, it was adjudged that, although <ORG> might, if it  saw fit, authorize the courts to investigate and ascertain the facts upon which the alien's right to land was made by the statutes to depend, yet <ORG> might entrust the final determination of those facts to an executive officer, and that, if it did so, his order was due process of law and no other tribunal, unless expressly authorized by law to do so, was at liberty to re-examine the evidence on which he acted, or to controvert its sufficiency.
Precedent	Thus according to <ORG> the determination of rights of an alien even by <ORG> will be in compliance of due process of law.
Precedent	52.
Precedent	<CITATION_488726> 1991 (3) SCC 554 the two foreign nationals engaged in missionary work had come to India in 1937 and 1948 respectively with proper documents like passport and visa etc.
Precedent	and were continuously living here but by the order dated 8th July, 1987 their prayer for further extension of the period of stay was rejected and they were asked to leave the country by 31st July, 1987.
Precedent	They then challenged the ord er by filing a writ petition.
Precedent	This Court held that the power of <ORG> to expel foreigners is absolute and unlimited and there is no provision in the Constitution fettering its discretion and the executive government has unrestricted right to expel a foreigner.
Precedent	So far as right to be heard is concerned, there cannot be any hard and fast rule about the manner in which a person concerned has to be given an opportunity to place his case.
Precedent	53.
Precedent	In State of Arunachal Pradesh v. <NAME> 1994 (Supp.)
Precedent	SCC 615, following <NAME> (supra), it was held that the fundamental right of a foreigner is confined to Article 21 for life and liberty and does not include the right to reside and stay in this country, as mentioned in Article 19(1)(e ), which is applicable only to the citizens of the country.
Precedent	After referring to some well-known and authoritative books on International Law it was observed that the persons who reside in the territories of countries of which they are not nationals, possess a  special status under International Law.
Precedent	<ORG>s reserve the right to expel them from their territory and to refuse to grant them certain rights which are enjoyed by their own nationals like right to vote, hold public office or to engage in political activities.
Precedent	Aliens may be debarred from joining the civil services or certain profession or from owning some properties and the <ORG> may place them under restrictions in the interest of national security or public order.
Precedent	Nevertheless, once lawfully admitted to a territory, they are entitled to certain immediate rights necessary to the enjoyment of ordinary private life.
Precedent	Thus, the Bangladeshi nationals who have illegally crossed the border and have trespassed into Assam or are living in other parts of the country have no legal right of any kind to remain in India and they are liable to be deported.
Precedent	54.
Precedent	The learned Additional Solicitor General has also submitted that the vires of a special statute seeking to make some provisions or some defined object cannot be ch allenged by comparing its provisions with a general statute covering the field.
Precedent	In support of this proposition he has placed reliance on In re The Special Courts Bill, 1978 AIR 1979 SC 478 and <CITATION_1353689> AIR 1988 SC 1531.
Precedent	In the former case, it was held that once a classification is upheld by the application of the dual test, subjection of harsher treatment or disadvantageous procedure loses its relevance, the reason being that for the purposes of Article 14 unequals cannot complain of unequal treatment.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, the proposition urged by the learned Additional Solicitor General has no application to the fact situation of the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contention of the petitioner is not that merely because the provisions of the IMDT Act provide many safeguards to an alleged illegal migrant in comparison to the Foreigners Act the IMDT Act is ultra vires.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contention is that as the Statement of Objects and Reasons show that the influx of foreigners who illegally migrated into India across the borders o f the sensitive Eastern and North-Eastern regions of the country and have remained in the country, pose a threat to the integrity and security of the said region and further their continuance in India has given rise to serious problems and also the clandestine manner in which these persons are trying to pass off as citizens of India has rendered their detection difficult and there being need for their speedy detection and the interest of general public, a classification was made on geographical basis whereby the Act was enforced only in the State of Assam in supersession to the Foreigners Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	But the Act so made contains such provisions and prescribes such procedure that it has become virtually impossible to detect and deport a foreigner which is evident from the statistical data furnished by the respondent themselves.
RatioOfTheDecision	The basis of differentiation has thus no nexus with the object sought to be achieved and, therefore, the classification made for application of IMDT Act to the State of Assam violates Article  14 and is consequently liable to be struck down.
RatioOfTheDecision	55.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> has submitted that Section 8 of the IMDT Act is similar to Section 9 of the Citizenship Act and, therefore, the same interpretation should be placed upon Section 8 .
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion it is not possible to accept such a contention.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 9 of the Citizenship Act applies to a situation where the question is whether an Indian citizen has lost his citizenship by acquiring the citizenship of a foreign country.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a question can be decided only by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are concerned here with identification and deportation of such Bangladeshi nationals who have illegally crossed the international border and have taken up residence in Assam.
Precedent	The question of loss of Indian citizenship on account of acquisition of citizenship of another country does not at all arise for consideration here.
Precedent	56.
Argument	The learned Additional Solicitor General has submitted that the present writ petition has been filed by way of public interest litigation and see ks to achieve a political purpose.
Argument	It is urged that the petitioner <NAME> was earlier an MLA of <ORG> party and is now a Member of <ORG> and what his party could not achieve politically, he wants to achieve by means of this public interest litigation.
Argument	It is urged that as held in <CITATION_112850760> 1981 (Supp.)
Argument	SCC 87 and some other cases that a public interest litigation cannot be entertained where its object is to attain a political purpose, the present petition is liable to be dismissed.
Argument	<NAME>, learned senior counsel for the State of Assam, has in addition submitted that no fundamental right of the petitioner has been violated and, therefore, the present petition under Article 32 of the Constitution is not maintainable.
Precedent	We are unable to accept the submission made.
Precedent	It is the foremost duty of <ORG> to protect its borders and prevent trespass by foreign nationals.
Precedent	Article 51-A(d) of the Constitution says that it shall be the duty of every cit izen of India to defend the country and render national service when called upon to do so.
Precedent	If an Act made by legislature has the disastrous effect of giving shelter and protection to foreign nationals who have illegally transgressed the international border and are residing in India and further the Act is unconstitutional, any citizen is entitled to bring it to the notice of the <ORG> by filing a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution.
Precedent	There are any number of instances where such writ petitions have been entertained by this <ORG> at the instance of citizens who were not themselves personally aggrieved in the sense that there was no direct invasion of their own fundamental right.
Precedent	<CITATION_504006> AIR 1987 SC 579, the petitioner had filed writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution challenging the action of the Governor of Bihar in promulgating ordinances from time to time under Article 213 of Constitution of India without getting them replaced by Acts of the Legislature.
Precedent	The Constitution Be <NAME> held that the petitioner has sufficient interest to maintain a petition under Article 32 even as a member of the public because it is the right of every citizen to insist that he should be governed by laws made in accordance with the Constitution and not law made by the executive in violation of the constitutional provisions.
Precedent	It was also held that if any particular ordinance was being challenged by the petitioner he may not have the locus standi to challenge it simply as a member of the public unless some legal right or interest of his is violated or threatened by such ordinance, but here what petitioner as a member of the public was complaining of is a practice which is being followed by the State of Bihar of repromulgting the ordinances from time to time without their provisions being enacted into Acts of the Legislature.
Precedent	The Court ruled that the petition had been filed for vindication of public interest and he must therefore be held to be entitled to maintain his writ petitions.
Precedent	<CITATION_314044> AIR 1 981 SC 2138 the constitutional validity of Special Bearer Bonds (Immunities and Exemptions) Ordinance and the Act of 1981 was challenged by <NAME>, a senior advocate of <ORG>, by filing a writ petition under Article 32 of Constitution, which was entertained and the validity of the Act was examined in great detail.
Precedent	Recently this <ORG> entertained a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution at the instance of Prof. <NAME>, former Chairman of <ORG> by way of Public Interest Litigation and struck down the Act made by <ORG> which enabled 112 Private Universities to be established, having no infrastructure whatsoever within a short span of two years.
Precedent	(See JT 2005 (3) SC 165)  57.
Precedent	To sum up our conclusions, the provisions of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act , 1983 are ultra vires the Constitution of India and are accordingly struck down.
Precedent	The Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Rules, 1984 are also ultra vires and are struck  down.
Precedent	As a result, the <ORG> and the Appellate <ORG> constituted under the Illegal Migrants (Determination by <ORG>) Act , 1983 shall cease to function.
Precedent	The Passport (Entry into India) Act , 1920, the Foreigners Act , 1946, the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act , 1950 and the Passport Act , 1967 shall apply to the State of Assam.
Precedent	All cases pending before the <ORG> under the Illegal Migrants (Determination by <ORG> ) Act, 1983 shall stand transferred to the <ORG> constituted under the Foreigners (<ORG>) Order, 1964 and shall be decided in the manner provided in the Foreigners Act , the Rules made thereunder and the procedure prescribed under the Foreigners (<ORG>) Order, 1964.
Precedent	In view of the finding that the competent authority and <ORG> had no authority or jurisdiction to reject any proceedings initiated against any alleged illegal migrant, the orders of rejection passed by such authorities are declared to be void and non est in the eye of law.
Precedent	It will be  open to the authorities of the <ORG> or <ORG> to initiate fresh proceedings under the Foreigners Act against all such persons whose cases were not referred to the <ORG> constituted under the Illegal Migrants (Determination by <ORG>) Act , 1983 by the competent authority whether on account of the recommendation of <ORG> or any other reason whatsoever.
Precedent	The appeals pending before the Appellate <ORG> shall be deemed to have abated.
Precedent	58.
RulingByPresentCourt	In view of the discussion made above, the writ petition succeeds and is allowed with the following directions : (1) The provisions of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by <ORG>) Act , 1983 and the Illegal Migrants (Determination by <ORG>) Rules, 1984 are declared to be ultra vires the Constitution of India and are struck down;  (2) The <ORG> and the Appellate <ORG> constituted under the Illegal Migrants (Determination by <ORG>) Act , 1983 shall cease to function;  (3) All cases pending before the Tribunal s under the Illegal Migrants (Determination by <ORG> ) Act, 1983 shall stand transferred to the <ORG> constituted under the Foreigners (<ORG>) Order, 1964 and shall be decided in the manner provided in the Foreigners Act , the Rules made thereunder and the procedure prescribed under the Foreigners (<ORG>) Order, 1964.
RulingByPresentCourt	(4) It will be open to the authorities to initiate fresh proceedings under the Foreigners Act against all such persons whose cases were not referred to the <ORG> by the competent authority whether on account of the recommendation of <ORG> or any other reason whatsoever.
RulingByPresentCourt	(5) All appeals pending before <ORG> shall be deemed to have abated.
Precedent	(6) The respondents are directed to constitute sufficient number of <ORG> under the Foreigners (<ORG>) Order, 1964 to effectively deal with cases of foreigners, who have illegally come from Bangladesh or are illegally residing in Assam.
Precedent	59.
RulingByPresentCourt	All the Interlocutory Applications are disposed of in te rms of the above order.
