Fact	CASE NO.
Fact	: Appeal (civil) 1344-45 of 1976 PETITIONER: <NAME> (Dead) By LRs RESPONDENT: State of Tamil Nadu & Ors.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 11/01/2007 BENCH: <NAME> Ashok Bhan Arijit Pasayat <NAME>, <NAME> <NAME> & <NAME> Altamas Kabir D.K.
Fact	Jain JUDGMENT:  J U D G M E N T [With <ORG> (C) Nos.242 of 1988, 751 of 1990, CA Nos.6045 & 6046 of 2002, <ORG> (C) No.408/03, SLP (C) Nos.14182, 14245, 14248, 14249, 26879, 14946, 14947, 26880, 26881, 14949, 26882, 14950, 26883, 14965, 26884, 14993, 15020, 26885, 15022, 15029, 14940 & 26886 of 2004, <ORG> (C) Nos.454, 473 & 259 of 1994, <ORG> (C) No.238 of 1995 and <ORG> (C) No.35 of 1996] <NAME>, CJI.
Fact	In these matters we are confronted with a very important yet not very easy task of determining the nature and character of protection provided by Article 31-B of the Constitution of India, 1950 (for short, the 'Constitution') to the laws added to the Ninth Schedule by amendments made after 24th April, 1973.
Fact	The relevance of this date is for the r eason that on this date judgment in <CITATION_257876> .
Fact	[] was pronounced propounding the doctrine of Basic Structure of the Constitution to test the validity of constitutional amendments.
Fact	Re : Order of Reference The order of reference made more than seven years ago by <ORG> is reported in I.R.
Fact	Coelho (Dead) by LRs.
Fact	v. State of Tamil Nadu [(1999) 7 SCC 580] (14.9.1999) .
Fact	The Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (the Janmam Act), insofar as it vested forest lands in the Janmam estates in the State of Tamil Nadu, was struck down by this Court in <CITATION_1126088> [] because this was not found to be a measure of agrarian reform protected by Article 31-A of the Constitution.
Fact	Section 2(c) of the West Bengal Land Holding Revenue Act, 1979 was struck down by <ORG> as being arbitrary and, therefore, unconstitutional and the special leave petition filed against the judgment by the State of West Bengal was dismissed.
Fact	By the Constitut ion (Thirty-fourth Amendment) Act, the Janmam Act, in its entirety, was inserted in the Ninth Schedule.
Fact	By the Constitution (Sixty-sixth Amendment) Act, the West Bengal Land Holding Revenue Act, 1979, in its entirety, was inserted in the Ninth Schedule.
Fact	These insertions were the subject matter of challenge before <ORG>.
Fact	The contention urged before <ORG> was that the statutes, inclusive of the portions thereof which had been struck down, could not have been validly inserted in the Ninth Schedule.
Fact	In the referral order, <ORG> observed that, according to <CITATION_1124708> .
Fact	[], amendments to the Constitution made on or after 24th April, 1973 by which the Ninth Schedule was amended from time to time by inclusion of various <ORG>, regulations therein were open to challenge on the ground that they, or any one or more of them, are beyond the constituent power of <ORG> since they damage the basic or essential features of the Constitution or its basic structure.
Fact	The  decision in <CITATION_1215719> .
Fact	[)], <CITATION_693176> .
Fact	[] were also noted and it was observed that the judgment in <NAME> needs to be reconsidered by a larger <ORG> so that the apparent inconsistencies therein are reconciled and it is made clear whether an Act or regulation which, or a part of which, is or has been found by this <ORG> to be violative of one or more of the fundamental rights conferred by Articles 14, 19 and 31 can be included in the Ninth Schedule or whether it is only a constitutional amendment amending the Ninth Schedule which damages or destroys the basic structure of the Constitution that can be struck down.
Fact	While referring these matters for decision to a larger <ORG>, it was observed that preferably the matters be placed before a <ORG> of nine Judges.
Fact	This is how these matters have been placed before us.
Fact	Broad Question The fundamental question is whether on and after 24th April, 1973 when basic structures doctrine was propounded, it is permissible for the <ORG> under Article  31B to immunize legislations from fundamental rights by inserting them into the Ninth Schedule and, if so, what is its effect on the power of judicial review of the <ORG>.
Fact	Development of the Law First, we may consider, in brief, the factual background of framing of the Constitution and notice the developments that have taken place almost since inception in regard to interpretation of some of Articles of the Constitution.
Fact	The Constitution was framed after an in depth study of manifold challenges and problems including that of poverty, illiteracy, long years of deprivation, inequalities based on caste, creed, sex and religion.
Fact	The independence struggle and intellectual debates in <ORG> show the value and importance of freedoms and rights guaranteed by Part III and State's welfare obligations in Part-IV.
Fact	The Constitutions of various countries including that of United States of America and Canada were examined and after extensive deliberations and discussions the Constitution was framed.
Fact	The Fu ndamental Rights Chapter was incorporated providing in detail the positive and negative rights.
Fact	It provided for the protection of various rights and freedoms.
Fact	For enforcement of these rights, unlike Constitutions of most of the other countries, <ORG> was vested with original jurisdiction as contained in Article 32.
Fact	<ORG> in <CITATION_219225> [AIR 1951 Patna 91] held that a Bihar legislation relating to land reforms was unconstitutional while <ORG> and Nagpur upheld the validity of the corresponding legislative measures passed in those States.
Fact	The parties aggrieved had filed appeals before <ORG>.
Fact	At the same time, certain Zamindars had also approached <ORG> under Article 32 of the Constitution.
Fact	It was, at this stage, that <ORG> amended the Constitution by adding Articles 31-A and 31-B to assist the process of legislation to bring about agrarian reforms and confer on such legislative measures immunity from possible attack on the gr ound that they contravene the fundamental rights of the citizen.
Fact	Article 31-B was not part of the original Constitution.
Fact	It was inserted in the Constitution by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951.
Fact	The same amendment added after Eighth Schedule a new Ninth Schedule containing thirteen items, all relating to land reform laws, immunizing these laws from challenge on the ground of contravention of Article 13 of the Constitution.
Fact	Article 13 , inter alia, provides that the <ORG> shall not make any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part III and any law made in contravention thereof shall, to the extent of the contravention, be void.
Fact	Articles 31A and 31B read as under :  "31A.
Statute	Saving of laws providing for acquisition of estates, etc. [(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in article 13 , no law providing for  (a) the acquisition by the <ORG> of any estate or of any rights therein or the extinguishment or modification of any such rights, or  (b) the taking over of the management of  any property by the <ORG> for a limited period either in the public interest or in order to secure the proper management of the property, or  (c) the amalgamation of two or more corporations either in the public interest or in order to secure the proper management of any of the corporations, or  (d) the extinguishment or modification of any rights of managing agents, secretaries and treasurers, managing directors, directors or managers of corporations, or of any voting rights of shareholders thereof, or  (e) the extinguishment or modification of any rights accruing by virtue of any agreement, lease or licence for the purpose of searching for, or winning, any mineral or mineral oil, or the premature termination or cancellation of any such agreement, lease or licence, shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by article 14 or article 19 :   Provided that where such law is a law made by the <ORG> of a <ORG>, the provisions o f this article shall not apply thereto unless such law, having been reserved for the consideration of the President, has received his assent :  Provided further that where any law makes any provision for the acquisition by the <ORG> of any estate and where any land comprised therein is held by a person under his personal cultivation, it shall not be lawful for the <ORG> to acquire any portion of such land as is within the ceiling limit applicable to him under any law for the time being in force or any building or structure standing thereon or appurtenant thereto, unless the law relating to the acquisition of such land, building or structure, provides for payment of compensation at a rate which shall not be less than the market value thereof.
Statute	(2) In this article,  (a) the expression "estate", shall, in relation to any local area, have the same meaning as that expression or its local equivalent has in the existing law relating to land tenures in force in that area and shall also include  (i) any jagir, inam  or muafi or other similar grant and in the States of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, any <ORG> right;  (ii) any land held under ryotwary settlement;  (iii) any land held or let for purposes of agriculture or for purposes ancillary thereto, including waste land, forest land, land for pasture or sites of buildings and other structures occupied by cultivators of land, agricultural labourers and village artisans;  (b) the expression "rights", in relation to an estate, shall include any rights vesting in a proprietor, sub-  proprietor, under-proprietor, tenure- holder, raiyat, under-raiyat or other intermediary and any rights or privileges in respect of land revenue.
RulingByLowerCourt	31B.
RulingByLowerCourt	Validation of certain Acts and Regulations.Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in article 31A , none of the Acts and Regulations specified in the Ninth Schedule nor any of the provisions thereof shall be deemed to be void, or ever to have become void, on the ground that such Act, Regulation or provision is inconsistent with,  or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by any provisions of this Part, and notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court or tribunal to the contrary, each of the said Acts and Regulations shall, subject to the power of any competent <ORG> to repeal or amend it, continue in force."
Fact	The Constitutional validity of the First Amendment was upheld in <CITATION_1706770> [(1952) SCR 89].
Fact	The main object of the amendment was to fully secure the constitutional validity of Zamindari Abolition Laws in general and certain specified Acts in particular and save those provisions from the dilatory litigation which resulted in holding up the implementation of the social reform measures affecting large number of people.
Fact	Upholding the validity of the amendment, it was held in Sankari Prasad that Article 13(2) does not affect amendments to the Constitution made under Article 368 because such amendments are made in the exercise of constituent power.
Fact	<ORG> held that to make a la w which contravenes the Constitution constitutionally valid is a matter of constitutional amendment and as such it falls within the exclusive power of <ORG>.
Fact	The Constitutional validity of the Acts added to the Ninth Schedule by the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964 was challenged in petitions filed under Article 32 of the Constitution.
Fact	Upholding the constitutional amendment and repelling the challenge in <CITATION_1308308> [(1965) 1 SCR 933] the law declared in Sankari Prasad was reiterated.
Fact	It was noted that Articles 31A and 31B were added to the Constitution realizing that State legislative measures adopted by certain States for giving effect to the policy of agrarian reforms have to face serious challenge in the courts of law on the ground that they contravene the fundamental rights guaranteed to the citizen by Part III.
Fact	The Court observed that the genesis of the amendment made by adding Articles 31A and 31B is to assist the State <ORG> to give effect to the economic policy to bri ng about much needed agrarian reforms.
Fact	It noted that if pith and substance test is to apply to the amendment made, it would be clear that the <ORG> is seeking to amend fundamental rights solely with the object of removing any possible obstacle in the fulfillment of the socio-economic policy viz.
Fact	a policy in which the party in power believes.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> further noted that the impugned act does not purport to change the provisions of Article 226 and it cannot be said even to have that effect directly or in any appreciable measure.
RulingByLowerCourt	It noted that the object of the Act was to amend the relevant Articles in Part III which confer Fundamental Rights on citizens and as such it falls under the substantive part of Article 368 and does not attract the provision of clause (b) of that proviso.
Fact	The <ORG>, however, noted, that if the effect of the amendment made in the Fundamental Rights on Article 226 is direct and not incidental and if in significant order, different considerations may perhaps arise.
Fact	Justice <NAME> lah, and Justice <NAME>, concurred with the opinion of Chief Justice <NAME> upholding the amendment but, at the same time, expressed reservations about the effect of possible future amendments on Fundamental Rights and basic structure of the Constitution.
Fact	Justice <NAME> questioned that "It is also a matter for consideration whether making a change in a basic feature of the Constitution can be regarded merely as an amendment or would it be, in effect, rewriting a part of the Constitution; and if the latter, would it be within the purview of the Article 368?"
Fact	<CITATION_21266288> .
Fact	[(1967) 2 SCR 762] a Bench of 11 Judges considered the correctness of the view that had been taken in <NAME> and <NAME> (supra).
Fact	By majority of six to five, these decisions were overruled.
Fact	It was held that the constitutional amendment is 'law' within the meaning of Article 13 of the Constitution and, therefore, if it takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part III thereof, it is void.
Fact	It was  declared that the <ORG> will have no power from the date of the decision (27th February, 1967) to amend any of the provisions of Part III of the Constitution so as to take away or abridge the fundamental rights enshrined therein.
Fact	Soon after <NAME> case, the Constitution (24th Amendment) Act , 1971, the Constitution (25th Amendment) Act , Act, 1971, the Constitution (26th Amendment) Act , 1971 and the Constitution (29th Amendment) Act , 1972 were passed.
Fact	By Constitution (24th Amendment) Act , 1971, Article 13 was amended and after clause (3), the following clause was inserted as Article 13(4) :   "13(4) Nothing in this article shall apply to any amendment of this Constitution made under article 368."
Fact	Article 368 was also amended and in Article 368(1) the words "in exercise of its constituent powers" were inserted.
Precedent	The Constitution (25th Amendment) Act , 1971 amended the provision of Article 31 dealing with compensation for acquiring or acquisition of properties for public purposes so that only  the amount fixed by law need to be given and this amount could not be challenged in court on the ground that it was not adequate or in cash.
Precedent	Further, after Article 31B of the Constitution, Article 31C was inserted, namely : "31C.Saving of laws giving effect to certain directive principles. Notwithstanding anything contained in article 13 , no law giving effect to the policy of the <ORG> towards securing all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by article 14 or article 19 and no law containing a declaration that it is for giving effect to such policy shall be called in question in any court on the ground that it does not give effect to such policy :  Provided that where such law is made by <ORG> <ORG>, the provisions of this article shall not apply thereto unless such law, having been reserved for the consideration of the President, has received his assent."
Precedent	Th e Constitution (26th Amendment) Act , 1971 omitted from Constitution Articles 291 (Privy Purses) and Article 362 (rights and privileges of Rulers of Indian States) and inserted Article 363A after Article 363 providing that recognition granted to Rulers of Indian States shall cease and privy purses be abolished.
Precedent	The Constitution (29th Amendment) Act , 1972 amended the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution inserting therein two Kerala Amendment Acts in furtherance of land reforms after Entry 64, namely, Entry 65  Kerala Land Reforms Amendment Act, 1969 (Kerala Act 35 of 1969); and Entry 66  Kerala Land Reforms Amendment Act, 1971 (Kerala Act 35 of 1971).
Precedent	These amendments were challenged in <NAME> case.
Precedent	The decision in <NAME> case was rendered on 24th April, 1973 by a 13 Judges Bench and by majority of seven to six <NAME> case was overruled.
Precedent	The majority opinion held that Article 368 did not enable the <ORG> to alter the basic structure or framework of the Constitution.
Precedent	The Constitution (24th Amendment) Act , 1971 was held to be valid.
Precedent	Further, the first part of Article 31C was also held to be valid.
Precedent	However, the second part of Article 31C that "no law containing a declaration that it is for giving effect to such policy shall be called in question in any court on the ground that it does not give effect to such policy" was declared unconstitutional.
Precedent	The Constitution 29th Amendment was held valid.
Precedent	The validity of the 26th Amendment was left to be determined by a Constitution Bench of five Judges.
Precedent	The majority opinion did not accept the unlimited power of the <ORG> to amend the Constitution and instead held that Article 368 has implied limitations.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 368 does not enable the <ORG> to alter the basic structure or framework of the Constitution.
Fact	Another important development took place in June, 1975, when <ORG> set aside the election of the then Prime Minister Mrs. <NAME> to the fifth <ORG> on the ground of alleged corrupt practices.
Fact	Pending appeal against the <ORG> judgment before <ORG>, the Constitution (39th Amendment) Act , 1975 was passed.
Fact	Clause (4) of the amendment inserted Article 329A after Article 329.
Statute	Sub-clauses (4) and (5) of Article 329A read as under :  "(4) No law made by <ORG> before the commencement of the Constitution (Thirty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1975, in so far as it relates to election petitions and matters connected therewith, shall apply or shall be deemed ever to have applied to or in relation to the election of any such person as is referred to in Clause (1) to either <ORG> of <ORG> and such election shall not be deemed to be void or ever to have become void on any ground on which such election could be declared to be void or has, before such commencement, been declared to be void under any such law and notwithstanding any order made by any court, before such commencement, declaring such election to be void, such election shall continue to be valid in all respects and any such order and  any finding on which such order is based shall be and shall be deemed always to have been void and of no effect.
Statute	(5) Any appeal or cross appeal against any such order of any court as is referred to in Clause (4) pending immediately before the commencement of the Constitution (Thirty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1975, before <ORG> shall be disposed of in conformity with the provisions of Clause (4)."
Statute	Clause (5) of the Amendment Act inserted after Entry 86, Entries 87 to 124 in the Ninth Schedule.
Statute	Many of the Entries inserted were unconnected with land reforms.
Fact	<CITATION_1240174> [1975 Supp.
Fact	(1) SCC 1] the aforesaid clauses were struck down by holding them to be violative of the basic structure of the Constitution.
Fact	About two weeks before <ORG> rendered decision in <NAME> case, internal emergency was proclaimed in the country.
Fact	During the emergency from 26th June, 1975 to March, 1977, Article 19 of the Constitution stood suspended by virtue of Article 358 and Articles 14 and 21  by virtue of Article 359.
Fact	During internal emergency, <ORG> passed Constitution (40th Amendment) Act , 1976.
Statute	By clause (3) of the said amendment, in the Ninth Schedule, after Entry 124, Entries 125 to 188 were inserted.
Statute	Many of these entries were unrelated to land reforms.
Statute	Article 368 was amended by the Constitution (42nd Amendment) Act , 1976.
Statute	It, inter alia, inserted by Section 55 of the Amendment Act, in Article 368 , after clause (3), the following clauses (4) and (5) :  "368(4) No amendment of this Constitution (including the provisions of Part III) made or purporting to have been made under this article whether before or after the commencement of section 55 of the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976 shall be called in question in any court on any ground.
Fact	(5) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that there shall be no limitation whatever on the constituent power of <ORG> to amend by way of addition, variation or repeal the provisions of this Constitution under this artic le."
Fact	After the end of internal emergency, the Constitution (44th Amendment) Act , 1978 was passed.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 2 , inter alia, omitted sub-clauses (f) of Article 19 with the result the right to property ceased to be a fundamental right and it became only legal right by insertion of Article 300A in the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Articles 14, 19 and 21 became enforceable after the end of emergency.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> also took steps to protect fundamental rights that had been infringed during emergency.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971 and the Prevention of Publication of Objectionable Matter Act, 1976 which had been placed in the Ninth Schedule were repealed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Constitution (44th Amendment) Act also amended Article 359 of the Constitution to provide that even though other fundamental rights could be suspended during the emergency, rights conferred by Articles 20 and 21 could not be suspended.
RatioOfTheDecision	During emergency, the fundamental rights were read even more restrictively as interpreted by majority in <CITATION_16509970 7> [].
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision in Additional District Magistrate, Jabalpur about the restrictive reading of right to life and liberty stood impliedly overruled by various subsequent decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fundamental rights received enlarged judicial interpretation in the post-emergency period.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 21 which was given strict textual meaning in <CITATION_1857950> [1950 SCR 88] interpreting the words "according to procedure established by law" to mean only enacted law, received enlarged interpretation in <CITATION_197630881> [].
Precedent	A.K.
Precedent	Gopalan was no longer good law.
Precedent	In <NAME> a Bench of Seven Judges held that the procedure established by law in Article 21 had to be reasonable and not violative of Article 14 and also that fundamental rights guaranteed by Part III were distinct and mutually exclusive rights.
Precedent	In <ORG> case (supra), the <ORG> struck down clauses (4) and (5) and Article 368 finding that they violated the basic structure of the Constitution.
Precedent	The next decision to be noted is that of <NAME> (supra).
Precedent	The developments that had taken place <NAME> case have been noticed in this decision.
Precedent	In Bhim Singhji (supra), challenge was made to the validity of Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act , 1976 which had been inserted in the Ninth Schedule after <NAME> case.
Precedent	<ORG> unanimously held that Section 27(1) which prohibited disposal of property within the ceiling limit was violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(f) of Part III.
Precedent	When the said Act was enforced in February 1976, Article 19(1)(f) was part of fundamental rights chapter and as already noted it was omitted therefrom only in 1978 and made instead only a legal right under Article 300A.
Precedent	It was held in <CITATION_1152518> .
Precedent	[] that power of judicial review is an integral and essential feature of the Constitution constituting the basic part, the jurisdiction so conferred on <ORG> and <ORG> is a part of inviolable basic structure of Constitution of India.
Precedent	Constitutional Amendment of Ninth S chedule It would be convenient to note at one place, various constitutional amendments which added/omitted various Acts/provisions in Ninth Schedule from Item No.1 to 284.
Precedent	It is as under :  " Amendment Act s/Provisions added 1st Amendment (1951) 1-13 4th Amendment (1955) 14-20 17th Amendment (1964) 21-64 29th Amendment (1971) 65-66 34th Amendment (1974) 67-86 39th Amendment (1975) 87-124 40th Amendment (1976) 125-188 47th Amendment (1984) 189-202 66th Amendment (1990) 203-257 76th Amendment (1994) 257A 78th Amendment (1995) 258-284 Omission In 1978 item 92 (Internal Security Act) was repealed by <ORG> .
Precedent	In 1977 item 130 (Prevention of Publication of Objectionable Matter) was repealed.
Precedent	In 1978 the 44th amendment omitted items 87 (The Representation of People Act ), 92 and 130."
Precedent	Many additions are unrelated to land reforms.
Precedent	The question is as to the scope of challenge to Ninth Schedule laws after 24th April, 1973 Article 32 The significance of jurisdiction conferred on this Court by Article 32 i s described by Dr. <NAME> as follows "most important Article without which this Constitution would be nullity"  Further, it has been described as "the very soul of the Constitution and the very heart of it".
Precedent	Reference may also be made to the opinion of Chief Justice <NAME> in <CITATION_554839> [1952 SCR 597] to the following effect : "This is especially true as regards the "fundamental rights" as to which <ORG> has been assigned the role of a sentinel on the qui vive.
Precedent	While the <ORG> naturally attaches great weight to the legislative judgment, it cannot desert its own duty to determine finally the constitutionality of an impugned statute."
Precedent	The jurisdiction conferred on this <ORG> by Article 32 is an important and integral part of the basic structure of the Constitution of India and no act of <ORG> can abrogate it or take it away except by way of impermissible erosion of fundamental principles of the constitutional scheme are settled propositions of Indian jurisprudence [see  <CITATION_1171702> .
Precedent	[], <CITATION_174974> .
Precedent	[], <CITATION_145860470> .
Precedent	[], Daryao & Ors.
Precedent	v. The State of U.P.
Precedent	& Ors.
Precedent	[(1962) 1 SCR 574] and <NAME> (supra).
Precedent	<CITATION_139734870> .
Precedent	[] it was reiterated that the judicial review is a basic feature of the Constitution and that the power of judicial review is a constituent power that cannot be abrogated by judicial process of interpretation.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a cardinal principle of our Constitution that no one can claim to be the sole judge of the power given under the Constitution and that its actions are within the confines of the powers given by the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is the duty of this <ORG> to uphold the constitutional values and enforce constitutional limitations as the ultimate interpreter of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Principles of Construction The Constitution is a living document.
RatioOfTheDecision	The constitutional provisions have to be construed having regard to the march of time and the development of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, therefore, necessary that while construing the doctrine of basic  structure due regard be had to various decisions which led to expansion and development of the law.
RatioOfTheDecision	The principle of constitutionalism is now a legal principle which requires control over the exercise of Governmental power to ensure that it does not destroy the democratic principles upon which it is based.
RatioOfTheDecision	These democratic principles include the protection of fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	The principle of constitutionalism advocates a check and balance model of the separation of powers, it requires a diffusion of powers, necessitating different independent centers of decision making.
RatioOfTheDecision	The principle of constitutionalism underpins the principle of legality which requires the <ORG> to interpret legislation on the assumption that <ORG> would not wish to legislate contrary to fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> can restrict fundamental rights but it is impossible for laws protecting fundamental rights to be impliedly repealed by future statutes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Common Law Constitutionalism The protection of fundamental constitution al rights through the common law is main feature of common law constitutionalism.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to Dr. <NAME>, the justification for protecting fundamental rights is not on the assumption that they are higher rights, but that protection is the best way to promote a just and tolerant society.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to Lord <NAME>, judiciary is the best institution to protect fundamental rights, given its independent nature and also because it involves interpretation based on the assessment of values besides textual interpretation.
RatioOfTheDecision	It enables application of the principles of justice and law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the controlled Constitution, the principles of checks and balances have an important role to play.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even in England where <ORG> is sovereign, Lord <NAME> has observed that in certain circumstances, Courts may be forced to modify the principle of parliamentary sovereignty, for example, in cases where judicial review is sought to be abolished.
RatioOfTheDecision	By this the judiciary is protecting a limited form of constitutionalism, ensuring tha t their institutional role in the Government is maintained.
RatioOfTheDecision	Principles of Constitutionality There is a difference between <ORG>ary and constitutional sovereignty.
RatioOfTheDecision	Our Constitution is framed by <ORG> which was not the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is in the exercise of law making power by <ORG> that we have a controlled Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Articles 14, 19, 21 represent the foundational values which form the basis of the rule of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	These are the principles of constitutionality which form the basis of judicial review apart from the rule of law and separation of powers.
RatioOfTheDecision	If in future, judicial review was to be abolished by a constituent amendment, as Lord <NAME> says, the principle of parliamentary sovereignty even in England would require a relook.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is how law has developed in England over the years.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is in such cases that doctrine of basic structure as propounded in <NAME> case has to apply.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> has been extensively quoted and relied on in <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	C hief Justice <NAME> observed that to destroy the guarantees given by Part III in order to purportedly achieve the goals of Part IV is plainly to subvert the Constitution by destroying its basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Fundamental rights occupy a unique place in the lives of civilized societies and have been described in judgments as "transcendental", "inalienable" and "primordial".
RatioOfTheDecision	They constitute the ark of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	(<NAME>  P.991, P.999).
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Chief Justice held that Parts III and IV together constitute the core of commitment to social revolution and they, together, are the conscience of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is to be traced for a deep understanding of the scheme of the Indian Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The goals set out in Part IV have, therefore, to be achieved without the abrogation of the means provided for by Part III.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is in this sense that Part III and IV together constitute the core of our Constitution and combine to form its conscience.
RatioOfTheDecision	Anything that destroys the balance between the two p arts will ipso facto destroy the essential element of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	[Emphasis supplied] (Para 57).
Precedent	Further observes the learned Chief Justice, that the matters have to be decided not by metaphysical subtlety, nor as a matter of semantics, but by a broad and liberal approach.
Precedent	We must not miss the wood for the trees.
Precedent	A total deprivation of fundamental rights, even in a limited area, can amount to abrogation of a fundamental right just as partial deprivation in every area can.
Precedent	The observations made in the context of Article 31C have equal and full force for deciding the questions in these matters.
Precedent	Again the observations made in Para 70 are very relevant for our purposes.
Precedent	It has been observed that if by a Constitutional Amendment, the application of Articles 14 and 19 is withdrawn from a defined field of legislative activity, which is reasonably in public interest, the basic framework of the Constitution may remain unimpaired.
Precedent	But if the protection of those Articles is withdrawn in resp ect of an uncatalogued variety of laws, fundamental freedoms will become a 'parchment in a glass case' to be viewed as a matter of historical curiosity.
Precedent	These observations are very apt for deciding the extent and scope of judicial review in cases wherein entire Part III, including Articles 14, 19, 20, 21 and 32, stand excluded without any yardstick.
Precedent	The developments made in the field of interpretation and expansion of judicial review shall have to be kept in view while deciding the applicability of the basic structure doctrine  to find out whether there has been violation of any fundamental right, the extent of violation, does it destroy the balance or it maintains the reasonable balance.
Precedent	The observations of Justice <NAME> in Minerva Mills case show how clause (4) of Article 368 would result in enlarging the amending power of the <ORG> contrary to dictum in <NAME> case.
Precedent	The learned Judge has said in Paragraph 85 that :  "So long as clause (4) stands, an amendment of the Constitution th ough unconstitutional and void as transgressing the limitation on the amending power of <ORG> as laid down in <NAME> case, would be unchallengeable in a court of law.
Precedent	The consequence of this exclusion of the power of judicial review would be that, in effect and substance, the limitation on the amending power of <ORG> would, from a practical point of view, become non-existent and it would not be incorrect to say that, covertly and indirectly, by the exclusion of judicial review, the amending power of <ORG> would stand enlarged, contrary to the decision of this <ORG> in <NAME> case.
Precedent	This would undoubtedly damage the basic structure of the Constitution, because there are two essential features of the basic structure which would be violated, namely, the limited amending power of <ORG> and the power of judicial review with a view to examining whether any authority under the Constitution has exceeded the limits of its powers."
Precedent	In Minerva Mills while striking down the  enlargement of Article 31C through 42nd Amendemnt which had replaced the words "of or any of the principles laid down in Part IV" with "the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) and Article 39 ", Justice <NAME> said :  " Section 4 of the Constitution (42nd Amendment) Act is beyond the amending power of the <ORG> and is void since it damages the basic or essential features of the Constitution and destroys its basic structure by a total exclusion of challenge to any law on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Article 14 or Article 19 of the Constitution, if the law is for giving effect to the policy of the <ORG> towards securing all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV of the Constitution."
Precedent	In <NAME> case, for the first time the challenge to the constitutional amendment was not in respect of the rights to property or social welfare, the challenge was with reference to an electoral law.
Precedent	Analysing this decision,  <NAME> in Constitutional Law of India (Fourth Edition) says that "the judgment in the election case break new ground, which has important effects on <NAME> case itself (<NAME> 30.18).
Precedent	Further the author says that "No one can now write on the amending power, without taking into account the effect of the Election case".
Precedent	(<NAME> 30.19).
Precedent	The author then goes on to clarify the meaning of certain concepts  'constituent power', 'Rigid' (controlled), or 'flexible' (uncontrolled) constitution, 'primary power', and 'derivative power'.
Precedent	The distinction is drawn by the author between making of a Constitution by <ORG> which was not subject to restraints by any external authority as a plenary law making power and a power to amend the Constitution, a derivative power derived from the Constitution and subject to the limitations imposed by the Constitution.
Precedent	No provision of the Constitution framed in exercise of plenary law making power can be ultra vires because there is no touch-stone outs ide the Constitution by which the validity of provision of the Constitution can be adjudged.
Precedent	The power for amendment cannot be equated with such power of framing the Constitution.
Precedent	The amending power has to be within the Constitution and not outside it.
Precedent	For determining whether a particular feature of the Constitution is part of its basic structure, one has per force to examine in each individual case the place of the particular feature in the scheme of our Constitution, its object and purpose, and the consequences of its denial on the integrity of the Constitution as a fundamental instrument of the country's governance (Chief Justice <NAME> in <NAME> case).
RatioOfTheDecision	The fundamentalness of fundamental rights has thus to be examined having regard to the enlightened point of view as a result of development of fundamental rights over the years.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, therefore, imperative to understand the nature of guarantees under fundamental rights as understood in the years that immediately followed after the Constitut ion was enforced when fundamental rights were viewed by this <ORG> as distinct and separate rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	In early years, the scope of the guarantee provided by these rights was considered to be very narrow.
RatioOfTheDecision	Individuals could only claim limited protection against the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This position has changed since long.
RatioOfTheDecision	Over the years, the jurisprudence and development around fundamental rights has made it clear that they are not limited, narrow rights but provide a broad check against the violations or excesses by the <ORG> authorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fundamental rights have in fact proved to be the most significant constitutional control on the Government, particularly legislative power.
RatioOfTheDecision	This transition from a set of independent, narrow rights to broad checks on state power is demonstrated by a series of cases that have been decided by this <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_41574> .
Precedent	[(1955) 1 SCR 777] relying on the ratio of Gopalan it was held that Article 31 was independent of Article 19(1)(f).
Precedent	However, it was in <CITATION_513801> [(1970) 3 SCR 53 0] (popularly known as Bank Nationalization case) the view point of <NAME> was seriously disapproved.
Precedent	While rendering this decision, the focus of the <ORG> was on the actual impairment caused by the law, rather than the literal validity of the law.
Precedent	This view was reflective of the decision taken in the case of <CITATION_243002> [(1962) 3 SCR 842] where the court was faced with the validity of certain legislative measures regarding the control of newspapers and whether it amounted to infringement of Article 19(1)(a).
Precedent	While examining this question the <ORG> stated that the actual effect of the law on the right guaranteed must be taken into account.
Precedent	This ratio was applied in Bank Nationalization case.
Precedent	The <ORG> examined the relation between Article 19(1)(f) and Article 13 and held that they were not mutually exclusive.
Precedent	The ratio of <NAME> was not approved.
Precedent	Views taken in Bank Nationalization case has been reiterated in number of cases (see <CITATION_608557> .
Precedent	[(1974) 1 SCR 1], <CITATION_1486034> .
Precedent	[(1975) 1 SC R 778] and <CITATION_679149> .
Argument	[(1975) 2 SCR 832] and finally the landmark judgment in the case of <NAME> (supra).
Argument	Relying upon <NAME>'s case it was said that Article 19(1) and 21 are not mutually exclusive.
Argument	The <ORG> observed in <NAME>'s case:  "The law, must, therefore, now be taken to be well settled that Article 21 does not exclude Article 19 and that even if there is a law prescribing a procedure for depriving a person of 'personal liberty' and there is consequently no infringement of the fundamental right conferred by Article 21 , such law, in so far as it abridges or takes away any fundamental right under Article 19 would have to meet the challenge of that article.
RatioOfTheDecision	This proposition can no longer be disputed after the decisions in R. C.  <NAME>'s case, <NAME> case and <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, if a law depriving a person of ''personal liberty' and prescribing a procedure for that purpose within the meaning of Article 21 has to stand the test of one or more of the fundamenta l rights conferred under Article 19 which may be applicable in a given, situation, ex hypothesi it must also' be liable to be tested with reference to Article 14.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was in fact not disputed by the learned Attorney General and indeed he could not do so in view of the clear and categorical statement made by <NAME>, J., in <NAME> case that Article 21 " presupposes that the law is a valid and binding law under the provisions of the Constitution having regard to the competence of the legislature and the subject it "relates to and does not infringe any of the fundamental rights which the Constitution provides for", including Article 14.
Precedent	This Court also applied Article 14 in two of its earlier decisions, namely, <CITATION_184660633>  S.C.R.
Precedent	284 and <CITATION_1949862>  S.C.R.
Precedent	435]"  [emphasis supplied] The decision also stressed on the application of Article 14 to a law under Article 21 and stated that even principles of natural justice be incorporated in such a test.
Precedent	It was held: "In fact equality an d arbitrariness are sworn enemies; one belongs to the rule of law in a republic, while the other, to the whim and caprice of an absolute monarch.
Precedent	Where an act is arbitrary, it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14".
Precedent	Article 14 strikes at arbitrariness in <ORG> action and ensures fairness and equality of treatment.
Precedent	The principle of reasonableness, which legally as well as philosophically, is an essential element of equality or non-arbitrariness pervades Article 14 like a brooding omnipresence and the procedure contemplated by Article 21 must answer the best of reasonableness in order to be in conformity with Article 14.
Precedent	It must be "right and just and fair" and not arbitrary, fanciful or oppressive;  otherwise, it would be no procedure at all and the requirement of Article 21 would not be satisfied.
Precedent	Any procedure which permits impairment of the constitutional right to go abroad without giving reasonable opportunit y to show cause cannot but be condemned as unfair and unjust and hence, there is in the present case clear infringement of the requirement of Article 21".
Precedent	[emphasis supplied] The above position was also reiterated by <NAME>, as follows :  "The <NAME> (supra) verdict, with the cocooning of Article 22 into a self contained code, has suffered supersession at the hands of <NAME>) By way of aside, the fluctuating fortunes of fundamental rights, when the proletarist and the proprietariat have asserted them in <ORG>, partially provoke sociological research and hesitantly project the <NAME> thesis of sub-  conscious forces in judicial noesis when the cyclorarmic review starts from <NAME>, moves on to In re : Kerala Education Bill and then on to <ORG>, next to <ORG>, crowning in <NAME> [1973] 3 S.C.R.
Precedent	530 and followed by <NAME> and <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Be that as it may, the law is now settled, as I apprehend it, that no article in Part III is an island  but part of a continent, and the conspectus of the whole part gives the directions and correction needed for interpretation of these basic provisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Man is not dissectible into separate limbs and, likewise, cardinal rights in an organic constitution, which make man human have a synthesis.
RatioOfTheDecision	The proposition is indubitable that Article 21 does not, in a given situation, exclude Article 19 if both rights are breached."
RatioOfTheDecision	[emphasis supplied] It is evident that it can no longer be contended that protection provided by fundamental rights comes in isolated pools.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the contrary, these rights together provide a comprehensive guarantee against excesses by state authorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus <NAME> case it is clear that the development of fundamental rights has been such that it no longer involves the interpretation of rights as isolated protections which directly arise but they collectively form a comprehensive test against the arbitrary exercise of state power in any area that occurs as an inevitable consequence.
RatioOfTheDecision	T he protection of fundamental rights has, therefore, been considerably widened.
RatioOfTheDecision	The approach in the interpretation of fundamental rights has been evidenced in a recent case <CITATION_102852> .
RatioOfTheDecision	[] in which the <ORG> noted:  "This principle of interpretation is particularly apposite to the interpretation of fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a fallacy to regard fundamental rights as a gift from the <ORG> to its citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	Individuals possess basic human rights independently of any constitution by reason of the basic fact that they are members of the human race.
RatioOfTheDecision	These fundamental rights are important as they possess intrinsic value.
RatioOfTheDecision	Part-III of the Constitution does not confer fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	It confirms their existence and gives them protection.
RatioOfTheDecision	Its purpose is to withdraw certain subjects from the area of political controversy to place them beyond the reach of majorities and officials and to establish them as legal principles to be applied by the courts.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every right has a content.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every foundational value is put in Pa rt-III as fundamental right as it has intrinsic value.
RatioOfTheDecision	The converse does not apply.
RatioOfTheDecision	A right becomes a fundamental right because it has foundational value.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from the principles, one has also to see the structure of the Article in which the fundamental value is incorporated.
RatioOfTheDecision	Fundamental right is a limitation on the power of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	A Constitution, and in particular that of it which protects and which entrenches fundamental rights and freedoms to which all persons in the <ORG> are to be entitled is to be given a generous and purposive construction.
Precedent	<CITATION_243002> .
Precedent	[AIR 1967 SC 305] this <ORG> has held that while considering the nature and content of fundamental rights, the <ORG> must not be too astute to interpret the language in a literal sense so as to whittle them down.
Precedent	The <ORG> must interpret the Constitution in a manner which would enable the citizens to enjoy the rights guaranteed by it in the fullest measure.
Precedent	An instance of literal and narrow interpretation of a vital fundamental right in th e Indian Constitution is the early decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1857950> .
Precedent	Article 21 of the Constitution provides that no person shall be deprived of his life and personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.
Precedent	<ORG> by a majority held that 'procedure established by law' means any procedure established by law made by the <ORG> or the legislatures of the State.
Precedent	<ORG> refused to infuse the procedure with principles of natural justice.
Precedent	It concentrated solely upon the existence of enacted law.
Precedent	After three decades, <ORG> overruled its previous decision in <NAME> and held in its landmark judgment in <CITATION_1766147> [] that the procedure contemplated by Article 21 must answer the test of reasonableness.
Precedent	The <ORG> further held that the procedure should also be in conformity with the principles of natural justice.
RatioOfTheDecision	This example is given to demonstrate an instance of expansive interpretation of a fundamental right.
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression 'life'  in Article 21 does not connote merely physical or animal existence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right to life includes right to live with human dignity.
RatioOfTheDecision	This Court has in numerous cases deduced fundamental features which are not specifically mentioned in Part-III on the principle that certain unarticulated rights are implicit in the enumerated guarantees".
RatioOfTheDecision	[Emphasis supplied] The abrogation or abridgment of the fundamental rights under Chapter III have, therefore, to be examined on broad interpretation, the narrow interpretation of fundamental rights chapter is a thing of past.
RatioOfTheDecision	Interpretation of the Constitution has to be such as to enable the citizens to enjoy the rights guaranteed by Part III in the fullest measure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Seperation of Powers The separation of powers between <ORG>, <ORG> and the <ORG> constitutes basic structure, has been found in <NAME> case by the majority.
RatioOfTheDecision	Later, it was reiterated in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	A large number of judgments have reiterated that the separation of powers is one of  the basic features of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, it was settled centuries ago that for preservation of liberty and prevention of tyranny it is absolutely essential to vest separate powers in three different organs.
RatioOfTheDecision	In Federalist 47, 48, and 51 <NAME> details how a separation of powers preserves liberty and prevents tyranny.
Precedent	In Federalist 47, <NAME> discusses <NAME>'s treatment of the separation of powers in the Spirit of Laws (Boox XI, Ch.
Precedent	6).
Precedent	There <NAME> writes, "When the legislative and executive powers are united in the same person, or in the same body of magistrates, there can be no liberty.
Precedent	.
Precedent	.
Precedent	Again, there is no liberty, if the judicial power be not separated from the legislative and executive."
Precedent	<NAME> points out that <NAME> did not feel that different branches could not have overlapping functions, but rather that the power of one department of government should not be entirely in the hands of another department of government.
Precedent	<NAME> in Federalist 78 remarks on the  importance of the independence of the judiciary to preserve the separation of powers and the rights of the people:  "The complete independence of the courts of justice is peculiarly essential in a limited Constitution.
Precedent	By a limited Constitution, I understand one which contains certain specified exceptions to the legislative authority; such, for instance, that it shall pass no bills of attainder, no ex post facto laws, and the like.
Precedent	Limitations of this kind can be preserved in practice in no other way than through the medium of courts of justice, whose duty it must be to declare all acts contrary to the manifest tenor of the Constitution void.
Precedent	Without this, all the reservations of particular rights or privileges would amount to nothing."
Precedent	(434)  <NAME> finds tyranny pervades when there is no separation of powers:  "There would be an end of everything, were the same man or same body, whether of the nobles or of the people, to exercise those three powers, that of enacting laws, that of executing the public  resolutions, and of trying the causes of individuals."
Precedent	<ORG> has long held that the separation of powers is part of the basic structure of the Constitution.
Precedent	Even before the basic structure doctrine became part of Constitutional law, the importance of the separation of powers on our system of governance was recognized by this <ORG> in Special Reference No.1 of 1964 [(1965) 1 SCR 413].
RatioOfTheDecision	Contentions In the light of aforesaid developments, the main thrust of the argument of the petitioners is that post-1973, it is impermissible to immunize Ninth Schedule laws from judicial review by making Part III inapplicable to such laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a course, it is contended, is incompatible with the doctrine of basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	The existence of power to confer absolute immunity is not compatible with the implied limitation upon the power of amendment in Article 368 , is the thrust of the contention.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further relying upon the clarification of <NAME>, J, as given in <NAME> case, in respect of his opinion in <NAME> <NAME> case, it is no longer correct to say that fundament rights are not included in the basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the contention proceeds that since fundamental rights form a part of basic structure and thus laws inserted into Ninth Schedule when tested on the ground of basic structure shall have to be examined on the fundamental rights test.
RatioOfTheDecision	The key question, however, is whether the basic structure test would include judicial review of Ninth Schedule laws on the touchstone of fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, it is necessary to examine what exactly is the content of the basic structure test.
Argument	According to the petitioners, the consequence of the evolution of the principles of basic structure is that Ninth Schedule laws cannot be conferred with constitutional immunity of the kind created by Article 31B.
Argument	Assuming that such immunity can be conferred, its constitutional validity would have to be adjudged by applying the direct impact and effect test which means the form of an amendment is not relevant, its  consequence would be determinative factor.
Argument	The power to make any law at will that transgresses Part III in its entirety would be incompatible with the basic structure of the Constitution.
Argument	The consequence also is, learned counsel for the petitioners contended, to emasculate Article 32 (which is part of fundamental rights chapter) in its entirety  if the rights themselves (including the principle of rule of law encapsulated in Article 14 ) are put out of the way, the remedy under Article 32 would be meaningless.
Argument	In fact, by the exclusion of Part III, Article 32 would stand abrogated qua the Ninth Schedule laws.
Argument	The contention is that the abrogation of Article 32 would be per se violative of the basic structure.
Argument	It is also submitted that the constituent power under Article 368 does not include judicial power and that the power to establish judicial remedies which is compatible with the basic structure is qualitatively different from the power to exercise judicial power.
Argument	The impact is that on the one hand the p ower under Article 32 is removed and, on the other hand, the said power is exercised by the legislature itself by declaring, in a way, Ninth Schedule laws as valid.
Argument	On the other hand, the contention urged on behalf of the respondents is that the validity of Ninth Schedule legislations can only be tested on the touch-stone of basic structure doctrine as decided by majority in <NAME> case which also upheld the Constitution 29th Amendment unconditionally and thus there can be no question of judicial review of such legislations on the ground of violation of fundamental rights chapter.
Argument	The fundamental rights chapter, it is contended, stands excluded as a result of protective umbrella provided by Article 31B and, therefore, the challenge can only be based on the ground of basic structure doctrine and in addition, legislation can further be tested for (i) lack of legislative competence and (ii) violation of other constitutional provisions.
Argument	This would also show, counsel for the respondents argued, that  there is no exclusion of judicial review and consequently, there is no violation of the basic structure doctrine.
Argument	Further, it was contended that the constitutional device for retrospective validation of laws was well known and it is legally permissible to pass laws to remove the basis of the decisions of the <ORG> and consequently, nullify the effect of the decision.
Argument	It was submitted that Article 31B and the amendments by which legislations are added to the Ninth Schedule form such a device, which 'cure the defect' of legislation.
Precedent	The respondents contend that the point in issue is covered by the majority judgment in <NAME> case.
Precedent	According to that view, Article 31B or the Ninth Schedule is a permissible constitutional device to provide a protective umbrella to Ninth Schedule laws.
Precedent	The distinction is sought to be drawn between the necessity for the judiciary in a written constitution and judicial review by the judiciary.
Precedent	Whereas the existence of judiciary is part of the basic framework of the  Constitution and cannot be abrogated in exercise of constituent power of the <ORG> under Article 368 , the power of judicial review of the judiciary can be curtailed over certain matters.
Precedent	The contention is that there is no judicial review in absolute terms and Article 31B only restricts that judicial review power.
Precedent	It is contended that after the doctrine of basic structure which came to be established in <NAME> case, it is only that kind of judicial review whose elimination would destroy or damage the basic structure of the Constitution that is beyond the constituent power.
Precedent	However, in every case where the constituent power excludes judicial review, the basic structure of the Constitution is not abrogated.
Precedent	The question to be asked in each case is, does the particular exclusion alter the basic structure.
Precedent	Giving immunity of Part III to the Ninth Schedule laws from judicial review, does not abrogate judicial review from the Constitution.
Precedent	Judicial review remains with the court but with its excl usion over Ninth Schedule laws to which Part III ceases to apply.
Precedent	The effect of placing a law in Ninth Schedule is that it removes the fetter of Part III by virtue of Article 31B but that does not oust the court jurisdiction.
Precedent	It was further contended that Justice <NAME> in <NAME> case held that subject to the retention of the basic structure or framework of the Constitution, the power of amendment is plenary and will include within itself the power to add, alter or repeal various articles including taking away or abridging fundamental rights and that the power to amend the fundamental rights cannot be denied by describing them as natural rights.
Precedent	The contention is that the majority in <NAME> case held that there is no embargo with regard to amending any of the fundamental rights in Part III subject to basic structure theory and, therefore, the petitioners are not right in the contention that in the said case the majority held that the fundamental rights form part of the basic stru cture and cannot be amended.
Precedent	The further contention is that if fundamental rights can be amended, which is the effect of <NAME> case overruling <NAME> case, then fundamental rights cannot be said to be part of basic structure unless the nature of the amendment is such which destroys the nature and character of the Constitution.
Precedent	It is contended that the test for judicially reviewing the Ninth Schedule laws cannot be on the basis of mere infringement of the rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution.
Precedent	The correct test is whether such laws damage or destroy that part of fundamental rights which form part of the basic structure.
Precedent	Thus, it is contended that judicial review of Ninth Schedule laws is not completely barred.
Precedent	The only area where such laws get immunity is from the infraction of rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution.
Precedent	To begin with, we find it difficult to accept the broad proposition urged by the petitioners that laws that have been found by the courts to be vi olative of Part III of the Constitution cannot be protected by placing the same in the Ninth Schedule by use of device of Article 31B read with Article 368 of the Constitution.
Precedent	In <NAME> case, the majority opinion upheld the validity of the Kerala Act which had been set aside in Kunjukutty Sahib etc.
Precedent	etc.
Precedent	v. The State of Kerala & Anr.
Precedent	[] and the device used was that of the Ninth Schedule.
Precedent	After a law is placed in the Ninth Schedule, its validity has to be tested on the touchstone of basic structure doctrine.
Precedent	<CITATION_1085960> .
Precedent	[], a Seven Judge Constitution Bench, post-decision in <NAME> case upheld Constitution (40th Amendment) Act , 1976 which was introduced when the appeal was pending in <ORG> and thereby included the regulations in the Ninth Schedule.
Argument	It was held that Article 31B and the Ninth Schedule cured the defect, if any, in the regulations as regards any unconstitutionality alleged on the ground of infringement of fundamental rights.
Argument	It is also contended that  the power to pack up laws in the Ninth Schedule in absence of any indicia in Article 31B has been abused and that abuse is likely to continue.
Argument	It is submitted that the Ninth Schedule which commenced with only 13 enactments has now a list of 284 enactments.
RatioOfTheDecision	The validity of Article 31B is not in question before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further, mere possibility of abuse is not a relevant test to determine the validity of a provision.
RatioOfTheDecision	The people, through the Constitution, have vested the power to make laws in their representatives through <ORG> in the same manner in which they have entrusted the responsibility to adjudge, interpret and construe law and the Constitution including its limitation in the judiciary.
RatioOfTheDecision	We, therefore, cannot make any assumption about the alleged abuse of the power.
RatioOfTheDecision	Validity of 31B There was some controversy on the question whether validity of Article 31B was under challenge or not in Kesavananda Bharati.
RatioOfTheDecision	On this aspect, Chief Justice <NAME> has to say this in <NAME> : <CITATION_1308308> [(1965 ) 1 SCR 933], the Court refused to reconsider the decision in Sankari Prasad (supra), with the result that the validity of the 1st Amendment remained unshaken.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>, it was held by a majority of 6 : 5 that the power to amend the Constitution was not located in Article 368.
RatioOfTheDecision	The inevitable result of this holding should have been the striking down of all constitutional amendments since, according to the view of the majority, <ORG> had no power to amend the Constitution in pursuance of Article 368.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the Court resorted to the doctrine of prospective overruling and held that the constitutional amendments which were already made would be left undisturbed and that its decision will govern the future amendments only.
RatioOfTheDecision	As a result, the 1st Amendment by which Articles 31A and 31B were introduced remained inviolate.
Precedent	It is trite knowledge that <NAME> was overruled in Kesavananda Bharati (supra) in which it was held unanimously that the power to amend the Constitution was to be found in Article 368 of the  Constitution.
Precedent	The petitioners produced before us a copy of the Civil Misc.
Precedent	Petition which was filed in Kesavananda Bharati, (supra) by which the reliefs originally asked for were modified.
Precedent	It appears thereform that what was challenged in that case was the 24th, 25th and the 29th Amendments to the Constitution.
Precedent	The validity of the 1st Amendment was not questioned <NAME>, however, held-while dealing with the validity of the unamended Article 31C that the validity of Article 31A was upheld in Sankari Prasad, (supra) that its validity could not be any longer questioned because of the principle of stare decisis and that the ground on which the validity of Article 31A was sustained will be available equally for sustaining the validity of the first part of Article 31C (page 744) (SCC p.812 , para 1518).
Precedent	We have examined various opinions in <NAME> case but are unable to accept the contention that Article 31B read with the Ninth Schedule was held to be constitutionally valid in that case.
Precedent	The <NAME> dity thereof was not in question.
Precedent	The constitutional amendments under challenge in <NAME> case were examined assuming the constitutional validity of Article 31B.
Precedent	Its validity was not in issue in that case.
Precedent	Be that as it may, we will assume Article 31B as valid.
Precedent	The validity of the 1st Amendment inserting in the Constitution, Article 31B is not in challenge before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	Point in issue The real crux of the problem is as to the extent and nature of immunity that Article 31B can validly provide.
RatioOfTheDecision	To decide this intricate issue, it is first necessary to examine in some detail the judgment in <NAME> case, particularly with reference to 29th Amendment.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> case The contention urged on behalf of the respondents that all the Judges, except Chief Justice <NAME>, in <NAME> case held that 29th Amendment was valid and applied <NAME>'s case, is not based on correct ratio of <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Six learned Judges (<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and  <NAME>, JJ) who upheld the validity of 29th Amendment did not subscribe to basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	The other six learned Judges (Chief Justice <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>) upheld the 29th Amendment subject to it passing the test of basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	The 13th learned Judge (<NAME>, J), though subscribed to basic structure doctrine, upheld the 29th Amendment agreeing with six learned Judges who did not subscribe to the basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, it would not be correct to assume that all Judges or Judges in majority on the issue of basic structure doctrine upheld the validity of 29th Amendment unconditionally or were alive to the consequences of basic structure doctrine on 29th Amendment.
RatioOfTheDecision	Six learned Judges otherwise forming the majority, held 29th amendment valid only if the legislation added to the Ninth Schedule did not violate the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The remaining six who are in minority in <NAME> case, insofar as it relates t o laying down the doctrine of basic structure, held 29th Amendment unconditionally valid.
RatioOfTheDecision	While laying the foundation of basic structure doctrine to test the amending power of the Constitution, Justice <NAME> opined that the fundamental rights could be amended abrogated or abridged so long as the basic structure of the Constitution is not destroyed but at the same time, upheld the 29th Amendment as unconditionally valid.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, it cannot be inferred from the conclusion of the seven judges upholding unconditionally the validity of 29th Amendment that the majority opinion held fundamental rights chapter as not part of the basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	The six Judges which held 29th Amendment unconditionally valid did not subscribe to the doctrine of basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	The other six held 29th Amendment valid subject to it passing the test of basic structure doctrine.
Precedent	Justice <NAME> upheld the 29th Amendment in the following terms:  "We may now deal with the Constitution (Twenty ninth Amendment) Act .
Precedent	This Act , as me ntioned earlier, inserted the Kerala Act 35 of 1969 and the Kerala Act 25 of 1971 as entries No.
Precedent	65 and 66 in the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution.
Precedent	I have been able to find no infirmity in the Constitution (Twenty ninth Amendment) Act ."
Precedent	In his final conclusions, with respect to the Twenty-ninth Amendment, <NAME>, J. held as follows: "(xv) The Constitution (Twenty-ninth Amendment) Act does not suffer from any infirmity and as such is valid."
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, while upholding the Twenty-ninth amendment, there was no mention of the test that is to be applied to the legislations inserted in the Ninth Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	The implication that the Respondents seek to draw from the above is that this amounts to an unconditional upholding of the legislations in the Ninth Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	They have also relied on observations by <NAME>, as quoted below, in <NAME> (supra).
Precedent	In that case, <NAME> observed:  "The Constitution 29th Amendment Act was considered by this <ORG> in <NAME> case.
Precedent	The 29th Amendment Act inserted in  the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution Entries 65 and 66 being the Kerala Land Reforms Act, 1969 and the Kerala Land Reforms Act, 1971.
Fact	This Court unanimously upheld the validity of the 29th Amendment Act .
Fact	The view of seven Judges in <NAME> case is that Article 31-B is a constitutional device to place the specified statutes in the Schedule beyond any attack that these infringe Part III of the Constitution.
Fact	The 29th Amendment is affirmed in <NAME> case (supra) by majority of seven against six Judges.
RatioOfTheDecision	.Second, the majority view in <NAME> case is that the 29th Amendment which put the two statutes in the Ninth Schedule and Article 31-B is not open to challenge on the ground of either damage to or destruction of basic features, basic structure or basic framework or on the ground of violation of fundamental rights."
RatioOfTheDecision	[Emphasis supplied] The respondents have particularly relied on aforesaid highlighted portions.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the issue of how 29th Amendment in <NAME> ati case was decided, in Minerva Mills, Bhagwati, <NAME> has said thus :  "The validity of the Twenty-ninth Amendment Act was challenged in Kesavananda Bharati case but by a majority consisting of <NAME>, <NAME> and the six learned Judges led by <NAME>, <NAME> (as he then was) it was held to be valid.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since all the earlier constitutional amendments were held valid on the basis of unlimited amending power of <ORG> recognised in <NAME> case and <NAME> case and were accepted as valid in <NAME> case and the Twenty Ninth Amendment Act was also held valid in Kesavananda Bharati case, though not on the application of the basic structure test, and these constitutional amendments have been recognised as valid over a number of years and moreover, the statutes intended to be protected by them are all falling within Article 31A with the possible exception of only four Acts referred to above, I do not think, we would be justified in re-opening the question of validity of these constitutional amendments and hence  we hold them to be valid.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, all constitutional amendments made after the decision in <NAME> case would have to be tested by reference to the basic structure doctrine, for <ORG> would then have no excuse for saying that it did not know the limitation on its amending power."
RatioOfTheDecision	To us, it seems that the position is correctly reflected in the aforesaid observations of <NAME>, J. and with respect we feel that <NAME> is not correct in the conclusion that 29th Amendment was unanimously upheld.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since the majority which propounded the basic structure doctrine did not unconditionally uphold the validity of 29th Amendment and six learned judges forming majority left that to be decided by a smaller <ORG> and upheld its validity subject to it passing basic structure doctrine, the factum of validity of 29th mendment in <NAME> case is not conclusive of matters under consideration before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	In order to understand the view of <NAME> in <NAME> (supra), it is important to tak e into account his later clarification.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME> (supra), <NAME> made it clear that he never opined that fundamental rights were outside the purview of basic structure and observed as follows:  "There was a controversy during the course of arguments on the point as to whether I have laid down in my judgment in <NAME> case that fundamental rights are not a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	As this controversy cropped up a number of times, it seems apposite that before I conclude I should deal with the contention advanced by learned Solicitor General that according to my judgment in that case no fundamental right is part of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	I find it difficult to read anything in that judgment to justify such a conclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	What has been laid down in that judgment is that no article of the Constitution is immune from the amendatory process because of the fact that it relates to a fundamental right and is contained in Part III of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	.The above observations clearly militate against the contention that according to my judgment fundamental rights are not a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	I also dealt with the matter at length to show that the right to property was not a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	This would have been wholly unnecessary if none of the fundamental rights was a part of the basic structure of the Constitution".
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, after his aforesaid clarification, it is not possible to read the decision of <NAME> in <ORG> so as to exclude fundamental rights from the purview of the basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	The import of this observation is significant in the light of the amendment that he earlier upheld.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that if the fundamental rights were never a part of the basic structure, it would be consistent with an unconditional upholding of the Twenty-ninth Amendment, since its impact on the fundamental rights guarantee would be rendered irrelevant.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, having held that some of the f undamental rights are a part of the basic structure, any amendment having an impact on fundamental rights would necessarily have to be examined in that light.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, the fact that <NAME> held that some of the fundamental rights were a part of the basic structure has a significant impact on his decision regarding the Twenty-ninth amendment and the validity of the Twenty-ninth amendment must necessarily be viewed in that light.
RatioOfTheDecision	His clarification demonstrates that he was not of the opinion that all the fundamental rights were not part of the basic structure and the inevitable conclusion is that the Twenty-ninth amendment even if treated as unconditionally valid is of no consequence on the point in issue in view of peculiar position as to majority abovenoted.
Precedent	Such an analysis is supported by <NAME>, in his book Constitutional Law of India (4th edition, Volume III), as follows:  "Although in his judgment in the Election Case, <NAME> clarified his judgment in <NAME>'s Case, that clarification raised a se rious problem of its own.
Precedent	The problem was: in view of the clarification, was <NAME> right in holding that Article 31-B and Sch.
RatioOfTheDecision	IX were unconconditionally valid?
RatioOfTheDecision	Could he do so after he had held that the basic structure of the Constitution could not be amended?
RatioOfTheDecision	As we have seen, that problem was solved in <ORG> by holding that Acts inserted in Sch.
RatioOfTheDecision	IX after 25 April, 1973 were not unconditionally valid, but would have to stand the test of fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	(<NAME> 30.48, page 3138) But while the clarification in the Election Case simplifies one problem  the scope of amending power  it raises complicated problems of its own.
Precedent	Was <NAME>  right in holding Art.
Precedent	31-B ( and Sch.
Precedent	9) unconditionally valid?
Precedent	An answer to these questions requires an analysis of the function of Art.
Precedent	31-B and Sch.
Precedent	9.Taking Art.
Precedent	31-B and Sch.
Precedent	9 first, their effect is to confer validity on laws already enacted which would be void for violating one of more of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III (fundamental rig hts).
Precedent	But if the power of amendment is limited by the doctrine of basic structure, a grave problem immediately arises.The thing to note is that though such Acts do not become a part of the Constitution, by being included in Sch.9 [footnote: This is clear from the provision of Article 31-B that such laws are subject to the power of any competent legislature to repeal or amend them  that no <ORG> legislature has the power to repeal or amend the Constitution, nor has <ORG> such a power outside Article 368 , except where such power is conferred by a few articles.]
Precedent	they owe their validity to the exercise of the amending power.
Precedent	Can Act s, which destroy the secular character of the <ORG>, be given validity and be permitted to destroy a basic structure as a result of the exercise of the amending power?
Precedent	That, in the last analysis is the real problem; and it is submitted that if the doctrine of the basic structure is accepted, there can be only one answer.
Precedent	If <ORG>, exercising constituent power cannot en act an amendment destroying the secular character of the <ORG>, neither can <ORG>, exercising its constituent power, permit the <ORG> or the <ORG> <ORG> to produce the same result by protecting laws, enacted in the exercise of legislative power, which produce the same result.
Precedent	To hold otherwise would be to abandon the doctrine of basic structure in respect of fundamental rights for every part of that basic structure can be destroyed by first enacting laws which produce that effect, and then protecting them by inclusion in Sch.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	Such a result is consistent with the view that some fundamental rights are a part of the basic structure, as <NAME> said in his clarification.
Precedent	(Para30.65, pages 3150- 3151) In other words, the validity of the 25th and 29th Amendments raised the question of applying the law laid down as to the scope of the amending power when determining the validity of the 24th Amendment.
Precedent	If that law was correctly laid down, it did not become incorrect by being wrongly applied.
Precedent	Th erefore the conflict between <NAME> views on the amending power and on the unconditional validity of the 29th Amendment is resolved by saying that he laid down the scope of the amending power correctly but misapplied that law in holding Art.
Precedent	31-B and Sch.
Precedent	9 unconditionally valid.
Precedent	Consistently with his view that some fundamental rights were part of the basic structure, he ought to have joined the 6 other judges in holding that the 29th Amendment was valid, but Acts included in Sch.
Precedent	9 would have to be scrutinized by the Constitution bench to see whether they destroyed or damaged any part of the basic structure of the Constitution, and if they did, such laws would not be protected.
Precedent	(Para30.65, page 3151)"  The decision in <ORG> (supra) regarding the Twenty-ninth amendment is restricted to that particular amendment and no principle flows therefrom.
Precedent	We are unable to accept the contention urged on behalf of the respondents that in <NAME> case Justice <NAME> and in <ORG> case, J ustice <ORG> have not considered the binding effect of majority judgments in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these decisions, the development of law post-<NAME> case has been considered.
RatioOfTheDecision	The conclusion has rightly been reached, also having regard to the decision in <NAME> case that post-<NAME> case or after 24th April, 1973, the Ninth Schedule laws will not have the full protection.
RatioOfTheDecision	The doctrine of basic structure was involved in <NAME> case but its effect, impact and working was examined in <NAME> case, <NAME> case and <ORG> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	To say that these judgments have not considered the binding effect of the majority judgment in <NAME> case is not based on a correct reading of Kesavananda Bharati.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the issue of equality, we do not find any contradiction or inconsistency in the views expressed by Justice <NAME> in <NAME> case, by Justice <NAME> in <NAME> case and Justice <ORG> in <ORG> s case.
RatioOfTheDecision	All these judgments show that violation in individual case has to be examined to find out whether violation of equality amounts to destruction of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Next, we examine the extent of immunity that is provided by Article 31B.
RatioOfTheDecision	The principle that constitutional amendments which violate the basic structure doctrine are liable to be struck down will also apply to amendments made to add laws in the Ninth Schedule is the view expressed by Chief Justice <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Substantially, similar separate opinions were expressed by <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the four different opinions six learned judges came to substantially the same conclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	These judges read an implied limitation on the power of the <ORG> to amend the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Justice <NAME> also opined that there was implied limitation in the shape of the basic structure doctrine that limits the power of <ORG> to amend the Constitution but the learned Judge upheld 29th Amendment and did not s ay, like remaining six Judges, that the Twenty-Ninth Amendment will have to be examined by a smaller Constitution Bench to find out whether the said amendment violated the basic structure theory or not.
RatioOfTheDecision	This gave rise to the argument that fundamental rights chapter is not part of basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Justice <NAME>, however, does not so say in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, <NAME> case cannot be said to have held that fundamental rights chapter is not part of basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Justice <NAME>, while considering Twenty-Ninth amendment, had obviously in view the laws that had been placed in the Ninth Schedule by the said amendment related to the agrarian reforms.
RatioOfTheDecision	Justice <NAME> did not want to elevate the right to property under Article 19(1)(f) to the level and status of basic structure or basic frame-work of the Constitution, that explains the ratio of <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further, doubt, if any, as to the opinion of Justice <NAME> stood resolved on the clarification given in <ORG> <NAME>'s case, by the learned Judge that in <NAME> case, he never held that fundamental rights are not a part of the basic structure or framework of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rights and freedoms created by the fundamental rights chapter can be taken away or destroyed by amendment of the relevant Article, but subject to limitation of the doctrine of basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	True, it may reduce the efficacy of Article 31B but that is inevitable in view of the progress the laws have made post-<NAME> case which has limited the power of the <ORG> to amend the Constitution under Article 368 of the Constitution by making it subject to the doctrine of basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	To decide the correctness of the rival submissions, the first aspect to be borne in mind is that each exercise of the amending power inserting laws into Ninth Schedule entails a complete removal of the fundamental rights chapter vis-`-vis the laws that are added in the Ninth Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly, insertion in Ninth Schedule is not c ontrolled by any defined criteria or standards by which the exercise of power may be evaluated.
RatioOfTheDecision	The consequence of insertion is that it nullifies entire Part III of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no constitutional control on such nullification.
RatioOfTheDecision	It means an unlimited power to totally nullify Part III in so far as Ninth Schedule legislations are concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	The supremacy of the Constitution mandates all constitutional bodies to comply with the provisions of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It also mandates a mechanism for testing the validity of legislative acts through an independent organ, viz.
Precedent	the judiciary.
Precedent	While examining the validity of Article 31C in <NAME> case, it was held that the vesting of power of the exclusion of judicial review in a legislature including a State legislature, strikes at the basic structure of the Constitution.
Precedent	It is on this ground that second part of Article 31C was held to be beyond the permissible limits of power of amendment of the Constitution under Article 368.
Precedent	If the doctrine of  basic structure provides a touchstone to test the amending power or its exercise, there can be no dobt and it has to be so accepted that Part III of the Constitution has a key role to play in the application of the said doctrine.
Precedent	Regarding the status and stature in respect of fundamental rights in Constitutional scheme, it is to be remembered that Fundamental Rights are those rights of citizens or those negative obligations of the <ORG> which do not permit encroachment on individual liberties.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> is to deny no one equality before the law.
RatioOfTheDecision	The object of the Fundamental Rights is to foster the social revolution by creating a society egalitarian to the extent that all citizens are to be equally free from coercion or restriction by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	By enacting Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles which are negative and positive obligations of the <ORG>s, <ORG> made it the responsibility of the Government to adopt a middle path between individual liberty and public good.
RatioOfTheDecision	Fundamental Rig hts and Directive Principles have to be balanced.
RatioOfTheDecision	That balance can be tilted in favour of the public good.
RatioOfTheDecision	The balance, however, cannot be overturned by completely overriding individual liberty.
RatioOfTheDecision	This balance is an essential feature of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Fundamental rights enshrined in Part III were added to the Constitution as a check on the <ORG> power, particularly the legislative power.
RatioOfTheDecision	Through Article 13 , it is provided that the <ORG> cannot make any laws that are contrary to Part III.
RatioOfTheDecision	The framers of the Constitution have built a wall around certain parts of fundamental rights, which have to remain forever, limiting ability of majority to intrude upon them.
RatioOfTheDecision	That wall is the 'Basic Structure' doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under Article 32 , which is also part of Part III, <ORG> has been vested with the power to ensure compliance of Part III.
RatioOfTheDecision	The responsibility to judge the constitutionality of all laws is that of judiciary.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, when power under Article 31B is exercised, the legislations made completely immune from P art III results in a direct way out, of the check of Part III, including that of Article  32.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot be said that the same Constitution that provides for a check on legislative power, will decide whether such a check is necessary or not.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be a negation of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME> case, while discussing the application of basic structure doctrine to the first amendment, it was observed that the measure of the permissibility of an amendment of a pleading is how far it is consistent with the original; you cannot by an amendment transform the original into opposite of what it is.
RatioOfTheDecision	For that purpose, a comparison is undertaken to match the amendment with the original.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a comparison can yield fruitful results even in the rarefied sphere of constitutional law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, if Article 31B only provided restricted immunity and it seems that original intent was only to protect a limited number of laws, it would have been only exception to Part III and the basis for the initial upholding of the provisio n. However, the unchecked and rampant exercise of this power, the number having gone from 13 to 284, shows that it is no longer a mere exception.
RatioOfTheDecision	The absence of guidelines for exercise of such power means the absence of constitutional control which results in destruction of constitutional supremacy and creation of parliamentary hegemony and absence of full power of judicial review to determine the constitutional validity of such exercise.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also contended for the respondents that Article 31A excludes judicial review of certain laws from the applications of Articles 14 and 19 and that Article 31A has been held to be not violative of the basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contention, therefore, is that exclusion of judicial review would not make the Ninth Schedule law invalid.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are not holding such law per se invalid but, examining the extent of the power which the <ORG> will come to possess.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 31A does not exclude uncatalogued number of laws from challenge on the basis of Part III.
RatioOfTheDecision	It provides for a standa rd by which laws stand excluded from <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Likewise, Article 31C applies as a yardstick the criteria of sub-clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 which refers to equitable distribution of resources.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fundamental rights have always enjoyed a special and privileged place in the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Economic growth and social equity are the two pillars of our Constitution which are linked to the rights of an individual (right to equal opportunity), rather than in the abstract.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some of the rights in Part III constitute fundamentals of the Constitution like Article 21 read with Articles 14 and 15 which represent secularism etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	As held in Nagaraj, egalitarian equality exists in Article 14 read with Article 16(4) (4A) (4B) and, therefore, it is wrong to suggest that equity and justice finds place only in the Directive Principles.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> has power to amend the provisions of Part III so as to abridge or take away fundamental rights, but that power is subject to the limitation of basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether the impact of such amendment results in violation of basic structure has to be examined with reference to each individual case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Take the example of freedom of <ORG> which, though not separately and specifically guaranteed, has been read as part of Article 19(1)(a).
RatioOfTheDecision	If Article 19(1)(a) is sought to be amended so as to abrogate such right (which we hope will never be done), the acceptance of respondents contention would mean that such amendment would fall outside the judicial scrutiny when the law curtailing these rights is placed in the Ninth Schedule as a result of immunity granted by Article 31B.
RatioOfTheDecision	The impact of such an amendment shall have to be tested on the touchstone of rights and freedoms guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In a given case, even abridgement may destroy the real freedom of the <ORG> and, thus, destructive of the basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Take another example.
RatioOfTheDecision	The secular character of our Constitution is a matter of conclusion to be drawn from various Articles conferring fundamental  rights; and if the secular character is not to be found in Part III, it cannot be found anywhere else in the Constitution because every fundamental right in Part III stands either for a principle or a matter of detail.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, one has to take a synoptic view of the various Articles in Part III while judging the impact of the laws incorporated in the Ninth Schedule on the Articles in Part III.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not necessary to multiply the illustrations.
RatioOfTheDecision	After enunciation of the basic structure doctrine, full judicial review is an integral part of the constitutional scheme.
RatioOfTheDecision	Justice <NAME> in <NAME> case was considering the right to property and it is in that context it was said that no Article of the Constitution is immune from the amendatory process.
RatioOfTheDecision	We may recall what Justice <NAME> said while dealing with the words "amendment of the Constitution".
RatioOfTheDecision	His Lordship said that these words with all the wide sweep and amplitude cannot have the effect of destroying or abrogating the basic structure or framewo rk of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The opinion of Justice <NAME> in <NAME> clearly indicates that the view in <NAME> case is that at least some fundamental rights do form part of basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Detailed discussion in <NAME> case to demonstrate that the right to property was not part of basic structure of the Constitution by itself shows that some of the fundamental rights are part of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The placement of a right in the scheme of the Constitution, the impact of the offending law on that right, the effect of the exclusion of that right from judicial review, the abrogation of the principle on the essence of that right is an exercise which cannot be denied on the basis of fictional immunity under Article 31B.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>,s case, Justice <NAME> posits that equality embodied in Article 14 is part of the basic structure of the Constitution and, therefore, cannot be abrogated by observing that the provisions impugned in t hat case are an outright negation of the right of equality conferred by Article 14 , a right which more than any other is a basic postulate of our constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Dealing with Articles 14, 19 and 21 in <ORG> case, it was said that these clearly form part of the basic structure of the Constitution and cannot be abrogated.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was observed that three Articles of our constitution, and only three, stand between the heaven of freedom into which <NAME> wanted his country to awake and the abyss of unrestrained power.
RatioOfTheDecision	These Articles stand on altogether different footing.
RatioOfTheDecision	Can it be said, after the evolution of the basic structure doctrine, that exclusion of these rights at <ORG>'s will without any standard, cannot be subjected to judicial scrutiny as a result of the bar created by Article 31B?
RatioOfTheDecision	The obvious answer has to be in the negative.
RatioOfTheDecision	If some of the fundamental rights constitute a basic structure, it would not be open to immunise those legislations from full judicial scrutiny either on the ground that t he fundamental rights are not part of the basic structure or on the ground that Part III provisions are not available as a result of immunity granted by Article 31B.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot be held that essence of the principle behind Article 14 is not part of the basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, essence or principle of the right or nature of violation is more important than the equality in the abstract or formal sense.
RatioOfTheDecision	The majority opinion in <NAME> case clearly is that the principles behind fundamental rights are part of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is necessary to always bear in mind that fundamental rights have been considered to be heart and soul of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rather these rights have been further defined and redefined through various trials having regard to various experiences and some attempts to invade and nullify these rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fundamental rights are deeply interconnected.
RatioOfTheDecision	Each supports and strengthens the work of the others.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Constitution is a living document, its interpretatio n may change as the time and circumstances change to keep pace with it.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is the ratio of the decision in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The history of the emergence of modern democracy has also been the history of securing basic rights for the people of other nations also.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the United States the Constitution was finally ratified only upon an understanding that a Bill of Rights would be immediately added guaranteeing certain basic freedoms to its citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	At about the same time when the Bill of Rights was being ratified in America, the French Revolution declared the Rights of Man to Europe.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the death of colonialism and the end of World War II birthed new nations across the globe, these states embraced rights as foundations to their new constitutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, the rapid increase in the creation of constitutions that coincided with the end of the Cold War has planted rights at the base of these documents.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even countries that have long respected and upheld rights, but whose governance traditions did not inclu de their constitutional affirmation have recently felt they could no longer leave their deep commitment to rights, left unstated.
RatioOfTheDecision	In 1998, the United Kingdom adopted the Human Rights Act which gave explicit affect to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In Canada, the " Constitution Act of 1982" enshrined certain basic rights into their system of governance.
RatioOfTheDecision	Certain fundamental rights, and the principles that underlie them, are foundational not only to the Indian democracy, but democracies around the world.
RatioOfTheDecision	Throughout the world nations have declared that certain provisions or principles in their Constitutions are inviolable.
RatioOfTheDecision	Our Constitution will almost certainly continue to be amended as India grows and changes.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, a democratic India will not grow out of the need for protecting the principles behind our fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	Other countries having controlled constitution, like Germany, have embraced the idea that there is a basic structure to their Constitutions and in doing so have entrenched vari ous rights as core constitutional commitments.
RatioOfTheDecision	India's constitutional history has led us to include the essence of each of our fundamental rights in the basic structure of our Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The result of the aforesaid discussion is that since the basic structure of the Constitution includes some of the fundamental rights, any law granted Ninth Schedule protection deserves to be tested against these principles.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the law infringes the essence of any of the fundamental rights or any other aspect of basic structure then it will be struck down.
RatioOfTheDecision	The extent of abrogation and limit of abridgment shall have to be examined in each case.
Precedent	We may also recall the observations made in Special Reference No.1/64 [(1965) 1 SCR 413] as follows : "...[W]hether or not there is distinct and rigid separation of powers under the Indian Constitution, there is no doubt that the constitution has entrusted to the Judicature in this country the task of construing the provisions of the Constitution and of safeguarding the fundamental  rights of the citizens.
Precedent	When a statute is challenged on the ground that it has been passed by a <ORG> without authority, or has otherwise unconstitutionally trespassed on fundamental rights, it is for the courts to determine the dispute and decide whether the law passed by the legislature is valid or not.
Precedent	Just as the legislatures are conferred legislative authority and there functions are normally confined to legislative functions, and the function and authority of the executive lie within the domain of executive authority, so the jurisdiction and authority of the Judicature in this country lie within the domain of adjudication.
Precedent	If the validity of any law is challenged before the courts, it is never suggested that the material question as to whether legislative authority has been exceeded or fundamental rights have been contravened, can be decided by the legislatures themselves.
Precedent	Adjudication of such a dispute is entrusted solely and exclusively to the Judicature of this country."
RatioOfTheDecision	We are of the view tha t while laws may be added to the Ninth Schedule, once Article 32 is triggered, these legislations must answer to the complete test of fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every insertion into the Ninth Schedule does not restrict Part III review, it completely excludes Part III at will.
RatioOfTheDecision	For this reason, every addition to the Ninth Schedule triggers Article 32 as part of the basic structure and is consequently subject to the review of the fundamental rights as they stand in Part III.
RatioOfTheDecision	Extent of Judicial Review in the context of Amendments to the Ninth Schedule We are considering the question as to the extent of judicial review permissible in respect of Ninth Schedule laws in the light of the the basic structure theory propounded in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this connection, it is necessary to examine the nature of the constituent power exercised in amending a Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have earlier noted that the power to amend cannot be equated with the power to frame the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	This power has no limitations or constraints,  it is primary power, a real plenary power.
RatioOfTheDecision	The latter power, however, is derived from the former.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has constraints of the document viz.
RatioOfTheDecision	Constitution which creates it.
RatioOfTheDecision	This derivative power can be exercised within the four corners of what has been conferred on the body constituted, namely, the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question before us is not about power to amend Part III after 24th April, 1973.
RatioOfTheDecision	As per <NAME>, power to amend exists in the <ORG> but it is subject to the limitation of doctrine of basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact of validation of laws based on exercise of blanket immunity eliminates Part III in entirety hence the 'rights test' as part of the basic structure doctrine has to apply.
Fact	In <NAME>'s case, the majority held that the power of amendment of the Constitution under Article 368 did not enable <ORG> to alter the basic structure of the Constitution.
Fact	<NAME>'s case laid down a principle as an axiom which was examined and worked out in <NAME> case, Mine <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>.
Fact	As already stated, in <NAME> case, for the first time, the constitutional amendment that was challenged did not relate to property right but related to free and fair election.
RatioOfTheDecision	As is evident from what is stated above that the power of amending the Constitution is a species of law making power which is the genus.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a different kind of law making power conferred by the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is different from the power to frame the Constitution i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	a plenary law making power as described by <NAME> in Constitutional Law of India (4th Edn.).
RatioOfTheDecision	The scope and content of the words 'constituent power' expressly stated in the amended Article 368 came up for consideration in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 329-A(4) was struck down because it crossed the implied limitation of amending power, that it made the controlled constitution uncontrolled, that it removed all limitations on the power to amend and that it sought to eliminate the golden triangle of Article 21 read with Artic les 14 and 19.
RatioOfTheDecision	(See also <ORG> case).
RatioOfTheDecision	It is <NAME> case read with clarification of Justice <NAME> in <NAME> case which takes us one step forward, namely, that fundamental rights are interconnected and some of them form part of the basic structure as reflected in Article 15 , Article 21 read with Article 14 , Article 14 read with Article 16(4) (4A) (4B) etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> and <NAME> cases have to be read together and if so read the position in law is that the basic structure as reflected in the above Articles provide a test to judge the validity of the amendment by which laws are included in the Ninth Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since power to amend the Constitution is not unlimited, if changes brought about by amendments destroy the identity of the Constitution, such amendments would be void.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is why when entire Part III is sought to be taken away by a constitutional amendment by the exercise of constituent power under Article 368 by adding the legislation in the Ninth Schedule, the ques tion arises as to the extent of judicial scrutiny available to determine whether it alters the fundamentals of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secularism is one such fundamental, equality is the other, to give a few examples to illustrate the point.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would show that it is impermissible to destroy Article 14 and 15 or abrogate or en bloc eliminate these Fundamental Rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	To further illustrate the point, it may be noted that the <ORG> can make additions in the three legislative lists, but cannot abrogate all the lists as it would abrogate the federal structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question can be looked at from yet another angle also.
RatioOfTheDecision	Can the <ORG> increase the amending power by amendment of Article 368 to confer on itself the unlimited power of amendment and destroy and damage the fundamentals of the Constitution?
RatioOfTheDecision	The answer is obvious.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 368 does not vest such a power in the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot lift all restrictions placed on the amending power or free the amending power from all its restrictions.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is the effect  of the decision in <NAME> case as a result of which secularism, separation of power, equality, etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	to cite a few examples would fall beyond the constituent power in the sense that the constituent power cannot abrogate these fundamentals of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Without equality the rule of law, secularism etc.
RulingByLowerCourt	would fail.
RulingByLowerCourt	That is why <NAME>, J. held that some of the Fundamental Rights like Article 15 form part of the basic structure.
RulingByLowerCourt	If constituent power under Article 368 , the other name for amending power, cannot be made unlimited, it follows that Article 31B cannot be so used as to confer unlimited power.
RulingByLowerCourt	Article 31B cannot go beyond the limited amending power contained in Article 368.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power to amend Ninth Schedule flows from Article 368.
RatioOfTheDecision	This power of amendment has to be compatible with the limits on the power of amendment.
RatioOfTheDecision	This limit came with the <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore Article 31-B after 24th April, 1973 despite its wide language cannot confer unlimited or unregulated imm unity.
RatioOfTheDecision	To legislatively override entire Part III of the Constitution by invoking Article 31-B would not only make the Fundamental Rights overridden by Directive Principles but it would also defeat fundamentals such as secularism, separation of powers, equality and also the judicial review which are the basic feature of the Constitution and essential elements of rule of law and that too without any yardstick/standard being provided under Article 31-B.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further, it would be incorrect to assume that social content exist only in Directive Principles and not in the Fundamental Rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 15 and 16 are facets of Article  14.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 16(1) concerns formal equality which is the basis of the rule of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	At the same time, Article 16(4) refers to egalitarian equality.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, the general right of equality under Article 14 has to be balanced with Article 15(4) when excessiveness is detected in grant of protective discrimination.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 15(1) limits the rights of the <ORG> by providing that there shall be no disc rimination on the grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	and yet it permits classification for certain classes, hence social content exists in Fundamental Rights as well.
RatioOfTheDecision	All these are relevant considerations to test the validity of the Ninth Schedule laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	Equality, rule of law, judicial review and separation of powers form parts of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Each of these concepts are intimately connected.
RatioOfTheDecision	There can be no rule of law, if there is no equality before the law.
RatioOfTheDecision	These would be meaningless if the violation was not subject to the judicial review.
RatioOfTheDecision	All these would be redundant if the legislative, executive and judicial powers are vested in one organ.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the duty to decide whether the limits have been transgressed has been placed on the judiciary.
RatioOfTheDecision	Realising that it is necessary to secure the enforcement of the Fundamental Rights, power for such enforcement has been vested by the Constitution in <ORG> and <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Judicial Review is an essential fea ture of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It gives practical content to the objectives of the Constitution embodied in Part III and other parts of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be noted that the mere fact that equality which is a part of the basic structure can be excluded for a limited purpose, to protect certain kinds of laws, does not prevent it from being part of the basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, it follows that in considering whether any particular feature of the Constitution is part of the basic structure  rule of law, separation of power  the fact that limited exceptions are made for limited purposes, to protect certain kind of laws, does not mean that it is not part of the basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	On behalf of the respondents, reliance has been placed on the decision of a nine Judge Constitution Bench in Attorney General for <CITATION_1326449> .
RatioOfTheDecision	[] to submit that argument of a violation of Article 14 being equally violative of basic structure or Articles 19 and 21 representing the basic structure of the Constitution has been reje cted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Para 20 referred to by learned counsel for the respondent reads as under :  "Before entering upon discussion of the issues arising herein, it is necessary to make a few clarificatory observations.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though a challenge to the constitutional validity of 39th, 40th and 42nd Amendments to the Constitution was levelled in the writ petitions on the ground that the said Amendments -  effected after the decision in <CITATION_257876>  Suppl.
RatioOfTheDecision	SCR 1 - infringe the basic structure of the Constitution, no serious attempt was made during the course of arguments to substantiate it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was generally argued that Article 14 is one of the basic features of the Constitution and hence any constitutional amendment violative of Article 14 is equally violative of the basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	This simplistic argument overlooks the reason d'etre of Article 31B   - at any rate, its continuance and relevance after <NAME> - and of the 39th and 40th Amendments placing the said enactments in the IXth Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	Acceptance of the petitioners'  argument would mean that in case of post-Bharati constitutional amendments placing Acts in the IXth Schedule, the protection of Article 31-B would not be available against Article 14.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, it was suggested that Articles 21 and 19 also represent the basic features of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	If so, it would mean a further enervation of Article 31B.
RatioOfTheDecision	Be that as it may, in the absence of any effort to substantiate the said challenge, we do not wish to express any opinion on the constitutional validity of the said Amendments.
RatioOfTheDecision	We take them as they are, i.e., we assume them to be good and valid.
RatioOfTheDecision	We must also say that no effort has also been made by the counsel to establish in what manner the said Amendment Act s violate Article 14."
RatioOfTheDecision	It is evident from the aforenoted passage that the question of violation of Articles 14, 19 or 21 was not gone into.
RatioOfTheDecision	The bench did not express any opinion on those issues.
RatioOfTheDecision	No attempt was made to establish violation of these provisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In Para 56, while summarizing the conclusion, the Benc h did not express any opinion on the validity of 39th and 40th Amendment Act s to the Constitution of India placing COFEPOSA and SAFEMA in the Ninth Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	These Act s were assumed to be good and valid.
RatioOfTheDecision	No arguments were also addressed with respect to the validity of 42nd Amendment Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	Every amendment to the Constitution whether it be in the form of amendment of any Article or amendment by insertion of an Act in the Ninth Schedule has to be tested by reference to the doctrine of basic structure which includes reference to Article 21 read with Article 14 , Article 15 etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	As stated, laws included in the Ninth Schedule do not become part of the Constitution, they derive their validity on account of the exercise undertaken by the <ORG> to include them in the Ninth Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	That exercise has to be tested every time it is undertaken.
RatioOfTheDecision	In respect of that exercise the principle of compatibility will come in.
RatioOfTheDecision	One has to see the effect of the impugned law on one hand and the exclusion of Part III in its enti rety at the will of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>, it was accordingly rightly held that the Acts inserted in the Ninth Schedule after 24th April, 1973 would not receive the full protection.
RatioOfTheDecision	Exclusion of Judicial Review compatible with the doctrine of basic structure  concept of Judicial Review Judicial review is justified by combination of 'the principle of separation of powers, rule of law, the principle of constitutionality and the reach of judicial review' (Democracy through Law by Lord <NAME>, Page 131).
RatioOfTheDecision	The role of the judiciary is to protect fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	A modern democracy is based on the twin principles of majority rule and the need to protect fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to Lord <NAME>, it is job of the <ORG> to balance the principles ensuring that the <ORG> on the basis of number does not override fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	Application of doctrine of basic structure In <NAME> case, the discussion was on the amending power conferred by unamended Article 368 which did not use th e words 'constituent power'.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already noted difference between original power of framing the Constitution known as constituent power and the nature of constituent power vested in <ORG> under Article 368.
RatioOfTheDecision	By addition of the words 'constituent power' in Article 368 , the amending body, namely, <ORG> does not become the original <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It remains a <ORG> under a controlled Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even after the words 'constituent power' are inserted in Article 368 , the limitations of doctrine of basic structure would continue to apply to the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is on this premise that clauses 4 and 5 inserted in Article 368 by 42nd Amendment were struck down in <ORG> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The relevance of <NAME> case, <ORG> case and <NAME> case lies in the fact that every improper enhancement of its own power by <ORG>, be it clause 4 of Article 329-A or clause 4 and 5 of Article 368 or Section 4 of 42nd Amendment have been held to be incompatible with the doctrine of bas ic structure as they introduced new elements which altered the identity of the Constitution or deleted the existing elements from the Constitution by which the very core of the Constitution is discarded.
RatioOfTheDecision	They obliterated important elements like judicial review.
RatioOfTheDecision	They made Directive Principles en bloc a touchstone for obliteration of all the fundamental rights and provided for insertion of laws in the Ninth Schedule which had no nexus with agrarian reforms.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is in this context that we have to examine the power of immunity bearing in mind that after <NAME> case, Article 368 is subject to implied limitation of basic structure.
Fact	The question examined in <NAME> case was whether the device of Article 31-B could be used to immunize Ninth Schedule laws from judicial review by making the entire Part III inapplicable to such laws and whether such a power was incompatible with basic structure doctrine.
Fact	The answer was in affirmative.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has been said that it is likely to make the controlled Constituti on uncontrolled.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would render doctrine of basic structure redundant.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would remove the golden triangle of Article 21 read with Article 14 and Article 19 in its entirety for examining the validity of Ninth Schedule laws as it makes the entire Part III inapplicable at the will of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This results in the change of the identify of the Constitution which brings about incompatibility not only with the doctrine of basic structure but also with the very existence of limited power of amending the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The extent of judicial review is to be examined having regard to these factors.
RatioOfTheDecision	The object behind Article 31-B is to remove difficulties and not to obliterate Part III in its entirety or judicial review.
RatioOfTheDecision	The doctrine of basic structure is propounded to save the basic features.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 21 is the heart of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It confers right to life as well as right to choose.
RatioOfTheDecision	When this triangle of Article 21 read with Article 14 and Article 19 is sought to be eliminated not only the 'essence of ri ght' test but also the 'rights test' has to apply, particularly when <NAME> and <NAME> cases have expanded the scope of basic structure to cover even some of the Fundamental Rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	The doctrine of basic structure contemplates that there are certain parts or aspects of the Constitution including Article 15 , Article 21 read with Article 14 and 19 which constitute the core values which if allowed to be abrogated would change completely the nature of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Exclusion of fundamental rights would result in nullification of the basic structure doctrine, the object of which is to protect basic features of the Constitution as indicated by the synoptic view of the rights in Part III.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is also a difference between the 'rights test' and the 'essence of right test'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Both form part of application of the basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	When in a controlled Constitution conferring limited power of amendment, an entire Chapter is made inapplicable, 'the essence of the right' test as applied i n <NAME> case (supra) will have no applicability.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a situation, to judge the validity of the law, it is 'right test' which is more appropriate.
RatioOfTheDecision	We may also note that in <ORG> and <NAME>'s cases, elimination of Part III in its entirety was not in issue.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are considering the situation where entire equality code, freedom code and right to move court under Part III are all nullified by exercise of power to grant immunization at will by the <ORG> which, in our view, is incompatible with the implied limitation of the power of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a case, it is the rights test that is appropriate and is to be applied.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>'s case it was held that for the correct interpretation, Article 368 requires a synoptic view of the Constitution between its various provisions which, at first sight, look disconnected.
RatioOfTheDecision	Regarding Articles 31-A and 31-C (validity whereof is not in question here) having been held to be valid despite denial of Article 14 , it may be noted that these A rticles have an indicia which is not there in Article 31-B.
RatioOfTheDecision	Part III is amendable subject to basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is permissible for the <ORG> to amend the Ninth Schedule and grant a law the protection in terms of Article 31B but subject to right of citizen to assail it on the enlarged judicial review concept.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> cannot grant fictional immunities and exclude the examination of the Ninth Schedule law by the <ORG> after the enunciation of the basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	The constitutional amendments are subject to limitations and if the question of limitation is to be decided by the <ORG> itself which enacts the impugned amendments and gives that law a complete immunity, it would disturb the checks and balances in the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The authority to enact law and decide the legality of the limitations cannot vest in one organ.
RatioOfTheDecision	The validity to the limitation on the rights in Part III can only be examined by another independent organ, namely, the judiciary.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power to grant abso lute immunity at will is not compatible with basic structure doctrine and, therefore, after 24th April, 1973 the laws included in the Ninth Schedule would not have absolute immunity.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, validity of such laws can be challenged on the touchstone of basic structure such as reflected in Article 21 read with Article 14 and Article 19 , Article 15 and the principles underlying these Articles.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has to be borne in view that the fact that some Articles in Part III stand alone has been recognized even by the <ORG>, for example, Articles 20 and 21.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 359 provides for suspension of the enforcement of the rights conferred by Part III during emergencies.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, by Constitution (44th Amendment) Act , 1978, it has been provided that even during emergencies, the enforcement of the rights under Articles 20 and 21 cannot be suspended.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is the recognition given by the <ORG> to the protections granted under Articles 20 and 21.
RatioOfTheDecision	No discussion or argument is needed for the conclusion that these rights are  part of the basic structure or framework of the Constitution and, thus, immunity by suspending those rights by placing any law in the Ninth Schedule would not be countenanced.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be an implied limitation on the constituent power of amendment under Article 368.
RatioOfTheDecision	Same would be the position in respect of the rights under Article 32 , again, a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The doctrine of basic structure as a principle has now become an axiom.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is premised on the basis that invasion of certain freedoms needs to be justified.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is the invasion which attracts the basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	Certain freedoms may justifiably be interfered with.
RatioOfTheDecision	If freedom, for example, is interfered in cases relating to terrorism, it does not follow that the same test can be applied to all the offences.
RatioOfTheDecision	The point to be noted is that the application of a standard is an important exercise required to be undertaken by the <ORG> in applying the basic structure doctrine and that has to be done by the <ORG>s and n ot by prescribed authority under Article 368.
RatioOfTheDecision	The existence of the power of <ORG> to amend the Constitution at will, with requisite voting strength, so as to make any kind of laws that excludes Part III including power of judicial review under Article 32 is incompatible with the basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, such an exercise if challenged, has to be tested on the touchstone of basic structure as reflected in Article 21 read with Article 14 and Article 19 , Article 15 and the principles thereunder.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power to amend the Constitution is subject to aforesaid axiom.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, thus, no more plenary in the absolute sense of the term.
RatioOfTheDecision	Prior to <NAME>, the axiom was not there.
RatioOfTheDecision	Fictional validation based on the power of immunity exercised by the <ORG> under Article 368 is not compatible with the basic structure doctrine and, therefore, the laws that are included in the Ninth Schedule have to be examined individually for determining whether the constitutional amendments by which they are put  in the Ninth Schedule damage or destroy the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	This Court being bound by all the provisions of the Constitution and also by the basic structure doctrine has necessarily to scrutinize the Ninth Schedule laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has to examine the terms of the statute, the nature of the rights involved, etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	to determine whether in effect and substance the statute violates the essential features of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	For so doing, it has to first find whether the Ninth Schedule law is violative of Part III.
RatioOfTheDecision	If on such examination, the answer is in the affirmative, the further examination to be undertaken is whether the violation found is destructive of the basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	If on such further examination the answer is again in affirmative, the result would be invalidation of the Ninth Schedule Law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, first the violation of rights of Part III is required to be determined, then its impact examined and if it shows that in effect and substance, it destroys the basic structure of t he Constitution, the consequence of invalidation has to follow.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every time such amendment is challenged, to hark back to <NAME> upholding the validity of Article 31B is a surest means of a drastic erosion of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 31B gives validation based on fictional immunity.
RatioOfTheDecision	In judging the validity of constitutional amendment we have to be guided by the impact test.
RatioOfTheDecision	The basic structure doctrine requires the <ORG> to justify the degree of invasion of fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> is presumed to legislate compatibly with the fundamental rights and this is where <ORG> comes in.
RatioOfTheDecision	The greater the invasion into essential freedoms, greater is the need for justification and determination by court whether invasion was necessary and if so to what extent.
RatioOfTheDecision	The degree of invasion is for the <ORG> to decide.
RatioOfTheDecision	Compatibility is one of the species of <ORG> which is premised on compatibility with rights regarded as fundamental.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power to grant immunity, at  will, on fictional basis, without full judicial review, will nullify the entire basic structure doctrine.
RatioOfTheDecision	The golden triangle referred to above is the basic feature of the Constitution as it stands for equality and rule of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	The result of aforesaid discussion is that the constitutional validity of the Ninth Schedule Laws on the touchstone of basic structure doctrine can be adjudged by applying the direct impact and effect test, i.e., rights test, which means the form of an amendment is not the relevant factor, but the consequence thereof would be determinative factor.
RatioOfTheDecision	In conclusion, we hold that :  (i) A law that abrogates or abridges rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution may violate the basic structure doctrine or it may not.
RatioOfTheDecision	If former is the consequence of law, whether by amendment of any Article of Part III or by an insertion in the Ninth Schedule, such law will have to be invalidated in exercise of judicial review power of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The validity or invalidity would be tested on the princ iples laid down in this judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	(ii) The majority judgment in <NAME> case read with <NAME> case, requires the validity of each new constitutional amendment to be judged on its own merits.
RatioOfTheDecision	The actual effect and impact of the law on the rights guaranteed under Part III has to be taken into account for determining whether or not it destroys basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	The impact test would determine the validity of the challenge.
RatioOfTheDecision	(iii) All amendments to the Constitution made on or after 24th April, 1973 by which the Ninth Schedule is amended by inclusion of various laws therein shall have to be tested on the touchstone of the basic or essential features of the Constitution as reflected in Article 21 read with Article 14 , Article 19 , and the principles underlying them.
RatioOfTheDecision	To put it differently even though an Act is put in the Ninth Schedule by a constitutional amendment, its provisions would be open to attack on the ground that they destroy or damage the basic structure if the fundamental right or  rights taken away or abrogated pertains or pertain to the basic structure.
RatioOfTheDecision	(iv) Justification for conferring protection, not blanket protection, on the laws included in the Ninth Schedule by Constitutional Amendments shall be a matter of Constitutional adjudication by examining the nature and extent of infraction of a Fundamental Right by a statute, sought to be Constitutionally protected, and on the touchstone of the basic structure doctrine as reflected in Article 21 read with Article 14 and Article 19 by application of the "rights test" and the "essence of the right" test taking the synoptic view of the Articles in Part III as held in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Applying the above tests to the Ninth Schedule laws, if the infraction affects the basic structure then such a law(s) will not get the protection of the Ninth Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is our answer to the question referred to us vide Order dated 14th September, 1999 in <CITATION_630806> [].
RulingByPresentCourt	(v) If the validity of any Ninth Schedule law has already been upheld  by this <ORG>, it would not be open to challenge such law again on the principles declared by this judgment.
RulingByPresentCourt	However, if a law held to be violative of any rights in Part III is subsequently incorporated in the Ninth Schedule after 24th April, 1973, such a violation/infraction shall be open to challenge on the ground that it destroys or damages the basic structure as indicated in Article 21 read with Article14, Article 19 and the principles underlying thereunder.
RulingByPresentCourt	(vi) Action taken and transactions finalized as a result of the impugned Acts shall not be open to challenge.
RulingByPresentCourt	We answer the reference in the above terms and direct that the petitions/appeals be now placed for hearing before <ORG> for decision in accordance with the principles laid down herein.
