Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, <NAME>.
Argument	The suit that has given rise to this appeal relates to certain lands lying in the town of Madura in the Madras Presidency which admittedly belong to an old math situated within the Mysore State, The origin, development, and raison d'etre of these maths have been discussed in a number of cases decided in <ORG> to some of which their Lordships propose to refer in the course of this judgment.
Argument	In their general characteristics they are almost identical with similar institutions in Northern India and in the Bombay Presidency.
Argument	The heads of these foundations bear different designations in respect of the rights and incidents attached to the office; the difference arises from the customs and usages of each institution.
Argument	The superior of this particular math has been called in these proceedings matathipathi and sometimes pandara sannadhi, which their Lordships understand connote the same idea of headship.
Argument	At the time this action was brought, the 26th defendant held the office of  matathipathi.
Fact	He has since died and the present appellant is the head of the institution.
Fact	In 1891 one <NAME> was the matathipathi and he on March 17 of that year granted to the 2nd plaintiff, a near relative, a permanent lease of the lands in the suit, on a small quit rent of Rs.
Fact	24 a year.
Fact	Shortly after the grant of the lease <NAME> died, and was succeeded by one <NAME>, who held the office until 1906, On his death the now deceased defendant No.
Fact	26 became the bead.
Fact	In 1902 the 2nd plaintiff sub-leased the lands to the 1st and 2nd defendants for a period of ten years.
Fact	2.
Fact	Since 1905 the math has been under the management of the Mysore State under a power of attorney, executed at first by the matathipathi <NAME> and afterwards by his successor, in favour of the <NAME> and his successors in office.
Fact	About the same time the 2nd plaintiff conjointly with his son (the 3rd plaintiff) assigned their right and interest in the lands in suit to the 1st plaintiff.
Fact	It is in evidence and, so far as appears from the  judgments of the two Courts in India, does not appear to be contradicted, that it was only in 1908 that the representative of the <ORG>, acting under the power granted by the matathipathi, became aware of the transaction of 1891 under which the plaintiffs claim title.
Fact	The sub-lease created in 1902 by the 2nd plaintiff in favour of the 1st and 2nd defendants was to have expired in 1912.
Fact	But before its expiry they obtained a lease for seventeen years from the representative of the <ORG>.
Fact	They are <ORG> in possession of the lands in suit under this lease.
Fact	The plaintiffs are and were at the time they brought their suit on March 5, 1918, in <ORG>, admittedly out of possession.
Fact	The present action is for declaration of title and for ejectment and possession, principally directed against the matathipathi as the head of the <ORG> and the 1st and 2nd defendants lessees holding possession under him.
Fact	The other defendants have been joined as parties apparently in consequence of certain  rights they possess or exercise under those defendants.
Fact	3.
Fact	The plaintiffs base their title on two grounds : First, that the permanent lease under which they claim was created under circumstances that would ?rind not only the grantor but all his successors; and secondly, that even it the lease was not valid they had acquired a title under the Indian Limitation Act .
Argument	4.
Argument	Their case throughout his been that <NAME> was a "trustee" and that all his successors are "trustees," that the lands were granted on a "specific" trust, and that consequently under Article 134 of Schedule 1 of the Indian Limitation Act (IX of 1908) they have acquired a good title against the <ORG>.
Argument	The matathipathi controverted both allegations.
Argument	He denied that the alienation by <ORG> was of such a character as would bind the <ORG>; he further denied that he and his predecessors were "trustees" of the <ORG> or that the 2nd plaintiff or his assignee had acquired any right to the <ORG> lands by adverse possession.
Argument	On these contentions, two p oints arose for determination which are embodied in the first two issues.
Argument	5.
Argument	The Subordinate Judge, after giving the substance of the 2nd plaintiff's evidence and of the other witnesses, formulates the position which the pleader took up.
Argument	He contends, says the learned judge, that the plaint property is trust property set apart for the worship of the titular deity of the <ORG>, that the head of the <ORG> is a trustee merely, and that the permanent lease to second plaintiff is an alienation of <ORG> property and that 26th defendant at this distance of time could possibly have no right to such property.
Argument	The alienation being ab initito void, the 26th defendant had no right to plaint property as he succeeded only in 1906 and first plaintiff had perfected his title by adverse possession for over twelve years.
Argument	6.
Argument	The Subordinate Judge negatived that contention; he held upon the admissions of the 2nd plaintiff that the property in suit was "ordinary <ORG> property " and was not set apart on any specific trust; that the  head of the math was not a bare trustee, " as it was admitted that the income was at his absolute disposal and that "none had a right to question him about it. "
Argument	He found also that the 2nd plaintiff took the lease with full knowledge of the character of the endowment and had learnt on inquiry that " he could not safely purchase it."
Argument	7.
Argument	With regard to the question of estoppel arising from the alleged acceptance of rent by the 26th defendant as the plaintiffs contended, the Subordinate Judge held : "In fact the 1st plaintiff never paid money as rent and the 26th defendant or his agent never accepted payment with knowledge that the payment was as rent for plaint property.
Fact	In these circumstances, I find that these defendants are not estopped from denying plaintiff's title.
Fact	I find this issue against plaintiffs."
Fact	He accordingly dismissed the suit save and except in respect of a money claim against the 1st and 2nd defendants.
Fact	8.
Fact	The plaintiffs appealed to <ORG>, which reversed the trial judge's  order and decreed the claim.
Fact	The learned judges do not negative the finding of <ORG> that the 2nd plaintiff took the lease with notice.
Fact	But they considered that the matter in dispute fell within art.
Fact	134 referred to above.
Statute	They summed up their conclusion in the following words: "that the lessor intended to grant, and the lessee intended to acquire, an interest greater than the transferor was competent to alienate, and all the requirements of art.
RatioOfTheDecision	134 have been complied with,"  9.
RatioOfTheDecision	The findings of the learned judges on the issue relating to the limitation and the acquisition of right by adverse possession require notice.
RatioOfTheDecision	They deal first with the question of justifiable necessity, which they decide against the plaintiffs.
Precedent	They say "there is no doubt that the head of a math cannot in the absence of necessity bind his successors in office by a permanent lease at a fixed rent for all time."
Precedent	And then add: "There is no allegation, much less proof, of any such necessity.
Precedent	The first contention must be rejecte d." They then proceed to discuss the nature of the endowment in question and the position of its head.
Precedent	Their finding on this point is important; they say as follows :  In connection with the second point a question arises as to the nature of the endowment and the position of the head of the math in relation to it.
Precedent	The exact terms of the original grant are not in evidence.
Precedent	It was conceded in argument that the grant was made by one of the <NAME> dynasty of Madura.
Precedent	The case for the appellants is that the endowment was for a specific purpose, i.e., for the worship of <NAME>, who is described by defendants' 1st witness as the 'titular deity of the math.'
RatioOfTheDecision	The evidence does not support this contention and it has been found against in the lower Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	A statement made by a local agent of the math during the <ORG> inquiries is relied upon for the appellants.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was apparently unsupported by any documentary evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The description of the in am as given at the close of the inquiry is that it was  granted 'for the support of <NAME>' (Exhibit L.).
RatioOfTheDecision	Compare also description in Exhibit F. The evidence for the defendants is that the income from this property is not appropriated to any particular purpose but forma part of the general finds of the math.
RatioOfTheDecision	I think the grant must be held to have been made for the general purposes of the math.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
RatioOfTheDecision	They thus concur with the first <ORG> that there was no "specific trust" which was the foundation of the plaintiff's case.
RatioOfTheDecision	But after examining some of the judgments of their own <ORG>, they apparently felt constrained to hold that the decision of this <ORG> in <NAME>, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1916) L.R.
RatioOfTheDecision	43 I.A.
RatioOfTheDecision	73 had crystallized the law on the subject, and definitely declared the mahant to be a "trustee."
Precedent	It is to be observed that in that case the decision related to the office of mahant, but in the course of their judgment their Lordships conceived it desirable to indicate inter alia what upon the evidence of the usages and customs applicable to the instituti on with which they were dealing, and similar institutions, were the duties and obligations attached to the office of superior; and they used the term "trustee" in a general sense, as in previous decisions of the Board, by the way of compendious expression to convey a general conception of those obligations.
Precedent	They did not attempt to define the term or to hold that the word in its specific sense is applicable to the laws and usages of the country.
Precedent	As pointed out by their predecessors in <CITATION_1451946> (1867) 11 Moo.
Precedent	I.A.
Precedent	405, 428 : "The only law as to these mahants and their..functions, and duties, is to be found in custom and practice, which is to be proved by testimony."
Precedent	Generally speaking, however, the duties and obligations resting on the superior indicated in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1916) L.R.
Precedent	43 I.A.
RatioOfTheDecision	73 do not seem to vary.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this particular institution the position of the matathipathi in relation to the math was clearly established by testimony and concurrently found by both <ORG>.
Precedent	But the lea rned judges misapprehended their Lordships' judgment and proceeded to hold that as <NAME> who granted the permanent lease was a "trustee," his act fell under art.
Precedent	134.
Precedent	To this article their Lordships will presently refer.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before doing so, however, they consider it necessary to observe that there are two systems of law in force in India, both self-contained and both wholly independent of each other, and wholly independent of foreign and outside legal conceptions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In each there are well-recognized rules relating to their religious and charitable institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	From the year 1774 the <ORG>, British and Indian, has affirmed time after time the absolute enjoyment of their laws and customs so far as they are not in conflict with the statutory laws, by Hindus and Mahommedans.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would, in their Lordships' opinion, be a serious inroad into their rights if the rules of the Hindu and Mahommedan laws were to be construed with the light of legal conceptions borrowed from abroad, unless perhaps where they are abso lutely, so to speak, in pari materia.
Precedent	The vice of this method of construction by analogy is well illustrated in the case of <NAME> v <NAME> (1904) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Mad.
Precedent	435 where a mahant's position was attempted to be explained by comparing it with that of a bishop and of a beneficed clergyman in England under the ecclesiastical law.
Precedent	It was criticised, and rightly, in their Lordships' opinion, in the subsequent case, which arose also in <ORG>, of <CITATION_658815> .
Precedent	(1909) I.L.R.
Precedent	33 Mad.
RatioOfTheDecision	265 To this judgment their Lordships will have to refer further later on.
RatioOfTheDecision	11.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also to be remembered that a "trust" in the sense in which the expression is used in English law, is unknown in the Hindu system, pure and simple (<NAME>, "Hindu Law" p. 276).
RatioOfTheDecision	Hindu piety found expression in gifts to idols and images consecrated and installed in temples, to religious institution of every kind, and for all purposes considered meritorious in the Hindu social and religious system;  to brahmans, goswamis, sanyasis, etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the gift was to a holy person, it carried with it in terms or by usage and custom certain obligations.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the Hindu law the image of a deity of the Hindu pantheon is, as has been aptly called, a "juristic entity," vested with the capacity of receiving gifts and holding property.
RatioOfTheDecision	Religious institutions, known under different names, are regarded as possessing the same "juristic" capacity, and gifts are made to them eo nomine.
RatioOfTheDecision	In many cases in Southern India, especially where the diffusion of Aryan Brahmanism was essential for bringing the Dravidian peoples under the religious rule of the Hindu system, colleges and monasteries under the names of math were founded under spiritual teachers of recognized sanctity.
RatioOfTheDecision	These men had and have ample discretion in the application of the funds of the institution, but always subject to certain obligations and duties, equally governed by custom and usage.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the gift is directly to an idol or a temple, the seisin to complete the  gift is necessarily effected by human agency.
RatioOfTheDecision	Galled by whatever name, he is only the manager and custodian of the idol or the institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In almost every case he is given the right to a part of the usufruct, the mode of enjoyment and the amount of the usufruct depending again on usage and custom.
RatioOfTheDecision	In no case was the property conveyed to or vested in him, nor is <NAME> a "trustee," in the English sense of the term, alt<NAME>ugh in view of the obligations and duties resting on him, he is answerable as a trustee in the general sense for mal-administration.
RatioOfTheDecision	12.
RatioOfTheDecision	The conception of a trust apart from a gift was introduced in India with the establishment of Moslem rule.
RatioOfTheDecision	And it is for this reason that in many documents of later times in parts of the country where Ma<NAME>mmedan influence has been predominant, such as Upper India and the Carnatic, the expression wakf is used to express dedication.
RatioOfTheDecision	13.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the Ma<NAME>mmedan law relating to trusts differs fundamentally from the English law.
RatioOfTheDecision	It owes its origin to a rule laid down by  <NAME>; and means "the tying up of property in the ownership of God the Almighty and the devotion of the profits for the benefit of human beings."
RatioOfTheDecision	When once it is declared that a particular property is wakf, or any such expression is used as implies wakf, or the tenor of the document shows, as in the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1840) 2 Moo.
RatioOfTheDecision	I.A.
RatioOfTheDecision	390 that a dedication to pious or charitable purposes is meant, the right of the wakif is extinguished and the ownership is transferred to the Almighty.
RatioOfTheDecision	The donor may name any meritorious object as the recipient of the benefit.
RatioOfTheDecision	The manager of the wakf is the mutawalli, the governor, superintendent, or curator.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME> case <ORG> call him "procurator."
RatioOfTheDecision	That case related to a khankah, a Mahommedan institution analogous in many respects to a math where Hindu religious instruction is dispensed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The head of these khankhas, which exist in large numbers in India, is called a sajjadanishin.
RatioOfTheDecision	He is the teacher o f religious doctrines and rules of life, and the manager of the institution and the administrator of its charities and has in most cases a larger interest in the usufruct than an ordinary mutawalli.
RatioOfTheDecision	But neither the sajjadanishin nor the mutawalli has any right in the property belonging to the <ORG>; the property is not vested in him and he is not a "trustee "in the technical sense.
RatioOfTheDecision	14.
Precedent	It was in view of this fundamental difference between the juridical conceptions on which the English law relating to trusts is based and those which form the foundations of the Hindu and the Mahommedan systems that <ORG> in enacting the Indian Trusts Act (II of 1882) deliberately exempted from its scope the rules of law applicable to <ORG> and Hindu religious endowments.
Precedent	Section 1 of that Act, after declaring when it was to come into force and the areas over which it should extend "in the first instance," lays down," but nothing herein contained affects the rules of Mahommedan law as to <ORG>, or the mutual relat ions of the members of an undivided family as determined by any customary or personal law, or applies to public or private religious or charitable endowments..." Section 3 of the Act gives a definition of the word "trust" in terms familiar to English lawyers.
Precedent	It says:  A 'trust' is an obligation annexed to the ownership of property, and arising out of a confidence reposed in and accepted by the owner, or declared and accepted by him, for the benefit of another, or of another and the owner the person who reposes or declares the confidence is called the 'author of the trust'; the person who accepts the confidence is called the "trustee"; the person for whose benefit the confidence is accepted is called the 'beneficiary'; the subject-matter of the trust is called 'trust-property' or 'trust-money'; the 'benefical interest' or 'interest' of the beneficiary is his right against the trustee as owner of the trust property and the instrument, if any, by which the trust is declared is called the 'instrument of trust.'
Precedent	15.
Precedent	In this connection it may be observed that in the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1920) L.R.
Precedent	47 I.A.
RatioOfTheDecision	224, 230 the dedication was specific property created by an instrument called a "trustee-namah."
RatioOfTheDecision	Lord <NAME>, delivering the judgment of the <ORG>, dealt thus with the objection as to the validtiy of the document:  It is argued, said the noble lord, that the 'trustee-nama' must have dealt with an interest in immoveable property, for otherwise the trustees could have no right to maintain the suit; and such an argument at first sight makes a strong appeal to those who are accustomed to administer the English law with regard to trustees.
RatioOfTheDecision	It needs, however, but a slight examination to show that the argument depends for its validity upon the assumption that the trustees of <ORG> in the present case stand in the same relation to the trust that trustees to whom property had been validly assigned would stand over here.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such is not the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> itself does not purport to assig n property to trustees.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
RatioOfTheDecision	In 1810 in the Bengal Presidency, and in 1817 in the Madras Presidency, <ORG> had assumed control of all the public endowments and benefactions, Hindu and Mahommedan, and placed them under the charge of the respective <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In 1863, under certain influences to which it is unnecessary to refer, the <ORG> considered it expedient to divest itself of the charge and control of these institutions, and to place them under the management of their own respective creeds.
Precedent	With this object, Act XX of 1863 was enacted : a system of Committees was devised to which were transferred the powers vested in <ORG> for the appointment of "managers, trustees and superintendents"; rules were enacted to ensure proper management and to empower the superior court in the district to take cognizance of allegations of misfeasance against the managing authority.
Precedent	Their Lordships are not giving a summary of the Act, but indicating only its general features.
Precedent	The Act contains  no definition of the word "trustee"; it uses indifferently and indiscriminately the terms "manager, trustee or superintendent," clearly showing that the expressions were used to connote one and the same idea of management.
Precedent	After the enactment of 1863, the <ORG>, to whom the endowments were transferred, were vested, generally speaking, with the same powers as the <ORG> had possessed before in respect of the appointment of "managers, trustees or superintendents."
Precedent	17.
Precedent	Article 134 of Schedule I to the Indian Limitation Act (IX of 1908) is in these terms : "To recover possession of immoveable property conveyed or bequeathed in trust or mortgaged and afterwards transferred by the trustee or mortgagee for valuable consideration," the period prescribed for the institution of the suit is twelve years "from the date of transfer."
Precedent	In the old Act XV of 1877, the words were "purchased from the trustee or mortgagee."
Precedent	The alteration was made with the object of including permanent leases in transactions of the ch aracter contemplated in the article.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	Article 134 is, as pointed out in <NAME> case, (1909) L.R.
Precedent	36 I.A.
Precedent	148 controlled by Section 10 of the Indian Limitation Act, which runs thus:  Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, no suit against a person in whom property has become vested in trust for any specific purpose, or against his legal representatives or assigns (not being assigns for valuable consideration), for the purpose of following in his or their hands such property, or the proceeds thereof, or for an account of such property or proceeds, shall be barred by any length of time.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	The language of Section 10 gives the clue to the meaning and applicability of art.
Precedent	134.
RatioOfTheDecision	It clearly shows that the article refers to cases of specific trust, and relates to property "conveyed in trust."
RatioOfTheDecision	Neither under the Hindu Law nor in the Mahommedan system is any property "conveyed" to a shebait or a mutawalli, in the case of a dedication.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nor is any property vested in him; whatever property he hold s for the idol or the institution he holds as manager with certain beneficial interests regulated by custom and usage.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the Mahommedan Law, the moment a wakf is created all rights of property pass out of the wakif, and vest in God Almighty.
RatioOfTheDecision	The curator, whether called mutawalli or sajjadanishin, or by any other name, is merely a manager.
RatioOfTheDecision	He is certainly not a "trustee" as understood in the English system.
RatioOfTheDecision	20.
Precedent	In Sammantha Pandora v. Sellappa Chetti (1879) I.L.R.
Precedent	2 Mad.
Precedent	175, 179 the position of the superior in relation to the properties of the math was laid down in terms which have an important bearing on the present case.
Precedent	The learned judges say there:  The property is in fact attached to the office and passes by inheritance to no one who does not till the office.
Precedent	It is in a certain sense trust property it is devoted to the maintenance of the establishment, but the superior has large dominion over it, and is not accountable for its management nor for the expenditure of the income, provided he does not ap ply it to any purpose other than what may fairly be regarded as in furtherance of the objects of the institution.
Precedent	Acting for the whole institution he may contract debts for purposes connected with his <ORG>, and debts so contracted might be recovered from the <ORG> property and would devolve as a liability on his successor to the extent of the assets received by him.
Precedent	21.
Precedent	The origin and nature of these maths were again considered at great length in a case which arose in the same <ORG> in 1886.
Precedent	In that case (Giyana Sambandha v. <NAME> (1887) I.L.R.
Precedent	10 Mad.
Precedent	375) the learned judges pronounced that the head of the institution held the <ORG> under his charge, and its endowment in trust for the maintenance of the math, for his own support, for that of his disciples, and for the performance of religious and other charities in connection therewith according to usage.
Precedent	An almost identical question came up for consideration in 1904 in <CITATION_1280506> (1904) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Mad.
Precedent	435 already referred to.
Precedent	In th at case the learned judges, after an elaborate examination of English institutions which they conceived to be analogous to Hindu maths, came to the conclusion that, whilst a dharmakarta of a temple who has specific duties to perform might be regarded as a trustee, the superior of a math is not a trustee but a "life-tenant."
Precedent	22.
Precedent	The same question in another form came up again for consideration in 1909 before <ORG> of <ORG> in the case of <CITATION_658815> .
Precedent	(1909) I.L.R.
Precedent	33 Mad.
Precedent	265 The learned judges before whom the point arose considered that the view taken in <CITATION_1280506> was in conflict with that propounded in the two earlier cases (1879) I.L.R.
Precedent	2 Mad.
Precedent	175 : (1887) I.L.R.
Argument	10 Mad.
Argument	375 and referred the question to <ORG>.
Argument	The reference was in these terms : "Does the head of a math hold the properties constituting its endowment as a life-tenant or as a trustee ?"
Argument	23.
Argument	The officiating Chief Justice expressed his opinion in the following terms: "I think, then, that it c annot be predicated of the head of a <ORG> as such, that he holds the properties constituting its endowments as a life-tenant or as a trustee.
Argument	The incidents attaching to the properties depend in each case upon the conditions on which they were given, or which may be inferred from the long-continued and well-established usage and custom of the institution in respect thereto."
Argument	<NAME> substantially agreed in this view.
Argument	<NAME> pointed out that in the case of these <ORG>s (p. 286): " Any surplus that remains in the hands of the pandara sannadhi, he is expected to utilise for the spiritual advancement of himself, his disciples or of the people.
Argument	But his discretion in this matter is unfettered.
Argument	He is not accountable to anyone and he is not bound to utilise the surplus.
Argument	He may leave it to accumulate."
RulingByLowerCourt	And he further added: "It is also true in my opinion that be is under a legal obligation to maintain the <ORG>, to support the disciples and to perform certain ceremonies which are indispensable.
RulingByLowerCourt	That will be o nly a charge on the income in his hands and does not show that the surplus is not at his disposal."
RulingByLowerCourt	In the result, he was of opinion "that in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, the pandara sannadhi (the superior) as such is not a trustee.
Precedent	He is also not a life-tenant for the reasons already given."
Precedent	All three judges agreed in thinking that if any specific property was specifically entrusted to the head for specific purposes he might be regarded as a "trustee" with regard to that property; but that in the absence of any such evidence the superior was not a trustee in respect of any part of the endowment.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	The point came up for discussion again in a concrete form in 1913 in <CITATION_1049695> (1913) I.L.R.
Precedent	38 Mad.
Precedent	356, where the exact point for decision was the question of limitation.
Precedent	The facts which gave rise to the litigation were almost identical with the present case before their Lordships, with this difference, that the suit there was brought by the head of the math to recover possession of th e leased properties.
Precedent	<NAME> stated thus the question for determination:  The principal question, a question which arises in both the appeals, is whether the suit is barred by limitation.
Precedent	It is conceded for the appellants that the lease is in excess of the powers of the matathipathi, and their contention is that the suit is barred because limitation must run from the date of the alienation in 1872, the lease being void, or at the latest from the death of <NAME> in 1890.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	The learned judges held in substance that there was no specific trust, that the properties were given or endowed generally for the performance of the worship of the deities in the math and other attendant duties and for the support of the superior and his disciples; that a lease granted by him was valid for his life, and if adopted by his successor would enure during his term of office; but neither the original alienation nor the subsequent adoption would create a bar by adverse possession.
Precedent	26.
Precedent	These cases deal exclusiv ely with the position of the superior of a math in relation to its endowment.
Precedent	But there are some others respecting the powers of the managers of religious institutions generally.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> (1889) I.L.R.
Precedent	13 Mad.
Precedent	277 a lease was granted by the <ORG> of a temple; and the suit to recover the leased lands was brought by his successor in office.
Precedent	The defence was limitation, running from the date of alienation.
Precedent	<NAME> (<NAME> concurring) held as follows:  In the present case, though the plaintiff may in point of time have succeeded the <ORG> who made the alienation, he does not derive his title from that <ORG> and is, therefore, not bound by his acts.
Precedent	Subject to the law of limitation, the successive holders of an office, enjoying for life the property attached to it, are at liberty to question the dispositions made by their predecessors ( <CITATION_1549689> (1889) I.L.R.
Precedent	7 Mad.
Precedent	85, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1885) I.L.R.
Precedent	10 Bom.
Precedent	34, <NAME> v. <NAME>  Singh (1882) I.L.R.
Precedent	9 Cal.
Precedent	411, and it is equally clear that time runs against the successor who challenges his predecessor's disposition, not from the date of the disposition, but from the date of the predecessor's death, when only the successor became entitled to possession.
Precedent	Accordingly, <NAME> having died so recently as 1885, the plaintiff's suit cannot be barred by limitation.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	That was followed in <CITATION_867025> .
Precedent	(1894) I.L.R.
Precedent	13 Mad.
Precedent	266 In that case the superior is called the "manager."
Precedent	28.
Precedent	<CITATION_718210> (1896) I.L.R.
Precedent	19 Mad.
Precedent	485 it was conceded that " the manager for the time being had no power to make a permanent alienation of temple property in the absence of proved necessity for the alienation."
Precedent	But from the long lapse of time between the alienation and the challenge of its validity, coupled with other circumstances, the learned judges came to the conclusion that necessity may reasonably be presumed.
Precedent	29.
Precedent	From the above review of the general law relating to Hindu and Mahommedan  pious institutions it would prima facie follow that an alienation by a manager or superior by whatever name called cannot be treated as the act of a "trustee " to whom property has been "conveyed in trust" and who by virtue thereof has the capacity vested in him which is possessed by a "trustee" in the English law.
Precedent	Of course, a Hindu or a Mahommedan may "convey in trust" a specific property to a particular individual for a specific and definite purpose, and place himself expressly under the English law when the person to whom the legal ownership is transferred would become a trustee in the specific sense of the term.
Precedent	30.
Precedent	But the respondents rely on three decisions of <ORG> in support of their contention that persons holding properties generally for Hindu and Mahommedan religious purposes are to be treated as "trustees."
Precedent	The first is a decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1562415> .
Precedent	(1902) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Bom.
Precedent	363 The facts of that case were peculiar.
Precedent	The math there was an old one and the dedi cation was recognized and confirmed by <ORG>.
Fact	The village was granted to a holy ascetic for the maintenance of a charity attached to the math; the governance went by succession to the disciples of the guru (the spiritual preceptor or head).
Fact	In 1871 the village was divided between two disciples, <NAME> and <NAME>, in equal moieties, and each held his half separately from the other.
Fact	In the same year one of them, <NAME>, sold the lands in dispute to the defendant.
Fact	In 1897 <NAME> obtained a sanad from Government under Act II of 1863 declaring him to be the absolute owner of his share.
Fact	He died in August, 1897, after appointing the plaintiff as his successor, who in 1898 brought an action to recover possession of the alienated lands on the ground that <NAME> had no power to alienate them as they were dedicated property.
Fact	The defence was first that the sanad had altered the character of the property, and secondly that the suit was barred.
Fact	The lower appellate Court found that th e lands in suit were private alienable property and that consequently the action was barred.
Fact	The first finding was strongly challenged by the plaintiff's counsel on second appeal.
Argument	He contended that as it was dedicated property its holders from time to time "could not allow the Government to treat it as private property," The learned judges of <ORG> refrained from deciding that point; and confined their attention solely to the question of limitation.
Argument	They proceeded to deal with the case, as they expressly say "on the hypothesis that the lands in suit were held by <NAME> and <NAME> as heads of the <ORG> and as trustees therefor."
RatioOfTheDecision	On that hypothesis the conclusion at which they arrived was inevitable.
RatioOfTheDecision	The position of the head of the <ORG> in relation to its property under the Hindu law, custom and practice, was not considered; he was simply assumed to be a trustee.
RatioOfTheDecision	The pith of the judgment consists in the following words : "We have then here a suit to recover possession of immoveable property conve yed in trust and afterwards purchased from the trustee for a valuable consideration."
RatioOfTheDecision	"Conveyed in trust" is hardly the right expression to apply to gifts of lands or other property for the general purposes of a Hindu religious or pious institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned judges relied on the two decisions of the Allahabad and Calcutta <ORG> to which their Lordships will presently refer.
Precedent	The case, however, was practically decided on the exposition of the law in the case of <NAME>, Oxford v. Attorney-General.
Precedent	(1857) 6 H.L.C.
Precedent	189 With respect to it they say as follows : "In further support of this conclusion we would also refer to the already cited case of <NAME> Oxford v. Attorney-General (1857) 6 H.L.C.
Precedent	189 for though it is a decision on the English statute, still it contains many points of resemblance to the present, and furnishes us with the clearest exposition of the law applicable to cases of this class.
Precedent	We propose to refer to that case in some detail, as it probably is not within the rea ch of most mofussil Courts in this Presidency."
Precedent	They set out the provisions of Sections 2, 24 and 25 of Will.
Precedent	IV.
Precedent	c. 27, and then add, "the section ( Section 25 ), it will be seen, corresponds more or less with our Articles 134 and 144 and Section 10 of the Limitation Act."
Precedent	Speaking with respect, it seems to their Lordships that the distinction between a specific trust and a trust for general pious or religious purposes under the Hindu and Mahommedan law was overlooked, and the case was decided on analogies drawn from English law inapplicable in the main to Hindu and Mahommedan institutions.
Precedent	That case can hardly be treated as authority in the decision of the present controversy.
Precedent	31.
Precedent	The case of <CITATION_675957> (1903) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Bom.
Precedent	373 only followed the view expressed in <CITATION_1562415> .
Precedent	(1902) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Bom.
Fact	363 But the facts, when examined, show a marked difference in the legal position of the parties in the two oases.
Fact	The mulgeni lease under which the defendant claimed title was granted in 1845, and  the suit to set it aside was brought somewhere in 1899.
Fact	Repeated attempts were made by successive managers of the temple to obtain enhancement of rent, but the suits were invariably withdrawn.
Fact	There was thus clear acquiescence on the part of successive managers in the validity of the transaction.
Fact	The case fell within the principle of <NAME> case, (1896) I.L.R.
Precedent	19 Mad.
Precedent	485 and might well have been decided without disturbance of Hindu law or usage.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	The second decision relied upon in support of the respondents' contention is the case of <CITATION_1045542> (1898) I.L.R.
Precedent	20 All.
Precedent	482 which related to a Mahommedan shrine.
Precedent	The origin and history of these shrines or durgahs, as they are called, is described compendiously in the judgment in <CITATION_857238> (1891) I.L.R.
Precedent	19 Cal.
Precedent	203, 220, 222:  The sajjadanashin has certain spiritual functions to perform.
Precedent	He is not only a mutawali, but also a spritual preceptor.
Precedent	He is the curator of the durgah where his ancestor is buried, and in him is supposed t o continue the spritual line (silsilla).
Precedent	As is well known, these durgahs are the tombs of celebrated dervishes, who in their life-time were regarded as saints.
Precedent	Some of these men had established khankahs where they lived and their disciples congregated.
Precedent	Many of them never rose to the importance of a khankah, and when they died their mausolea became shrines or durgahs.
Precedent	These dervishes professed esoteric doctrines and distinct systems of initiation...The preceptor is called the <NAME>, the disciple the murid.
Precedent	On the death of the <NAME> his successor assumes the privilege of initiating the disciples into the mysteries of dervishism or sufism.
Precedent	This privilege of initiation, of making murids, of imparting to them s<NAME>itual knowledge, is one of the functions which the sajjadanashin performs or is supposed to perform."
Precedent	[The endowment is maintained by grants of lands to the shrines by pious Moslems.
Precedent	The head of the institution, like that of a khankah, is called a sajjadanishin.
Precedent	The governance (tow liat) of the endowment is i n his hands; he is a mutawali, with the duty of imparting spiritual instruction to those who seek it.
Precedent	The property of the 'shrine' is wakf 'tied up in the ownership of God.']
Precedent	33.
Precedent	The appointment of the sajjadanishin is regulated by usage and practice.
Precedent	This is referred to in the same judgment:  Upon the death of the last incumbent, generally on the day of what is called the slum or <NAME> ceremony (performed on the third day after his decease), the fakirs and murids of the durgah, assisted by the heads of neighbouring durgahs, instal a competent person on the guddi generally the person chosen is the son of the deceased or somebody nominated by him, for his nomination is supposed to carry the guarantee that the nominee knows the precepts which he is to communicate to the disciples.
Precedent	In some instances the nomination takes the shape of a formal installation by the electoral body, so to speak, during the lifetime of the incumbent.
Precedent	34.
Precedent	The duties in connection with the "shrine," apart from giving spiritual instructi on, consist in the due observance of the annual ceremonies at the tomb of the Saint, the distribution of charity at fasts and festivals, the celebration of the birthday of the <NAME>, and the performance of other rites and ceremonials prescribed either by the religious law or by usage and practice.
Precedent	Ordinarily speaking, the <NAME> has a larger right in the surplus income than a mutawalli, for so long as he does not spend it in wicked living or in objects wholly alien to his office, he, like the mahant of a Hindu math, has full power of disposition over it.
Precedent	35.
Precedent	<CITATION_1045542> (1898) I.L.R.
Precedent	20 All.
Precedent	482, the plaintiff as <NAME> sued to set aside certain mortgages executed by his predecessor in office, and dated his cause of action from the time he was appointed as <NAME>.
Precedent	The learned judges, on a misconception of the rules of the Mahommedan law and of the judgment of their Lordships in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1810) 2 Moo.
Precedent	I.A.
Precedent	390, held that the <NAME> was a "trust ee."
RulingByLowerCourt	One judge held that the suit was barred either under Article 134 or art.
RulingByLowerCourt	144; the two others held that Article 134 was applicable as the mortgages were created by a "trustee."
RulingByLowerCourt	Their Lordships hare to differ from that conclusion.
RulingByLowerCourt	In their opinion this case was not, in view of the considerations set forth above, correctly decided.
Precedent	36.
Precedent	As regards the third case, <CITATION_1987690> (1896) I.L.R.
Precedent	23 Cal.
Argument	536, the suit was brought by the plaintiff as the shebait of a Hindu idol to set aside a dar-mukarrari pottah, executed in respect of certain of the debottar lands by two ladies who acted as shebaits during his minority.
Argument	He alleged that he became entitled to sue for possession of the alienated lands on his appointment to the office of shebait by a decree of the <ORG>.
Argument	The material defence was that the claim was barred.
Argument	It should be observed that the dar-mukarrari was created in 1857 and the suit was brought after 18S8.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the judgment of the High <ORG> the words shebait and trustee are used as synonymous and  convertible terms; the expression is always "shebait or trustee."
RatioOfTheDecision	Probably the fact that the shebait has duties and obligations in connection with the dedication, influenced the employment of the word "trustee" in a general sense.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> uses the expression in the same general sense to connote the same idea.
RatioOfTheDecision	That the learned judge did not regard the shebait as a trustee in the specific sense may be inferred from his indecisive conclusion as to the application of Article 134 to the plaintiff's claim.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is quite clear, however, that the legal position of a shebait is quite different from that of a trustee to whom specific property is "conveyed" on a specific trust.
Precedent	In Prosunno Kumari Debya v. <NAME> (1875) L.R.
Precedent	2 I.A.
Argument	145, 151 where the question for determination was whether a particular transaction challenged as invalid had been entered into for such necessity as would make it binding on the dedication, Sir <NAME>, in delivering the judgment of the Board, scrupulously avoided the use  of the confusing word "trustee."
Argument	Dealing with the powers of the shebait, he said as follows:  But, notwithstanding that property devoted to religious purposes is, as a rule, inalienable, it is, in their Lordships' opinion, competent for the sebait of property dedicated to the worship of an idol, in the capacity as sebait and manager of the estate, to incur debts and borrow money for the proper expenses of keeping up the religious worship, repairing the temples or other possessions of the idol, defending hostile litigious attacks, and other like objects.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power, however, to incur such debts must be measured by the existing necessity for incurring them.
RatioOfTheDecision	The authority of the sebait of an idol's estate would appear to be in this respect analogous to that of the manager for an infant heir, which was this defined in a judgment of this <ORG>, delivered by Knight <NAME>....
RatioOfTheDecision	It is only in an ideal sense that property can be said to belong to an idol; the possession and management of it must in the nature o f things be entrusted to some person us sebait, or manager.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would seem to follow that the person so entrusted must of necessity be empowered to do whatever may be required for the service of the idol, and for the benefit and preservation of its property, at least to as great a degree as the manager of an infant heir.
Precedent	If this were not so, the estate of the idol might be destroyed or wasted, and its worship discontinued, for want of the necessary funds to preserve and maintain them.
Precedent	37.
Precedent	The identical question relating to the powers and position of a shebait was again before the Board in <NAME> case (1909) L.R.
Precedent	36 I.A.
Precedent	148, 165 already referred to.
Precedent	With regard to the powers of the shebait, their Lordships say as follows :  The second question is whether, this being so, the <ORG> had power to grant a mokarari pottah of the mouzah.
Precedent	It is well settled law that the power of the <ORG> to alienate debottar property is, like the power of the manager for an infant heir, limited to cases of unavoidable n ecessity.
Precedent	<NAME> v. <NAME> (1875) L.R.
Precedent	2 I.A.
Precedent	145.
Precedent	In the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1876) L.R.
Precedent	4 I.A.
Precedent	52 a mokarari pottah of debottar lands was supported on the ground that it was granted in consideration of money said to be requited for the repair and completion of a temple, for which no other funds could be obtained.
Precedent	But the general rule is that laid down in the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1869) 13 Moo.
Precedent	I.A.
Precedent	270, 275, that apart from such necessity 'to create a new and fixed rent for all time, though adequate at the time, in lieu of giving the endowment the benefit of an augmentation of a variable rent from time to time, would be a breach of duty' in the mohant.
Precedent	There is no allegation that there were any special circumstances of necessity in this case to justify the grant of the pottah of 1860, which on the most favourable construction enured only for the lifetime of the grantor, <NAME>, who died in 1891, or of the pott ah of 1896, which, at best, could only be deemed operative during the lifetime of <NAME>, who died in 1900.
Precedent	38.
Precedent	The question came up again for consideration by the <ORG> in the case of <NAME> v. <NAME>.
Precedent	(1917) L.R.
Precedent	44 I.A.
Argument	147,155, 156 The suit was instituted by the head of a math to recover possession of certain land which formed part of the endowment of a Hindu temple attached to the math, and had been granted by his predecessor to the defendant by a perpetual rent-free lease in consideration of a small sum of money paid at the time.
Argument	The contention in that case was that the alienation was for the benefit of the institution; that contention was overruled, and the decision proceeded on the basis that the shebait was only a manager.
Argument	Lord <NAME>, delivering the judgment of the <ORG>, further added: "Three authorities have been cited which establish that it is a breach of duty on the part of a shebait, unless constrained thereto by unavoidable necessity, to grant a lease in per petuity of debottar lands at a fixed rent, however adequate that rent may be at the time of granting, by reason of the fact that by this means the debottar estate is deprived of the chance it would have, if the rent were variable, of deriving benefit from the enhancement in value in the future of the lands leased."
Precedent	In that case the leased lands were situated in the street of a village; here they are in the town of Madura.
Precedent	39.
Precedent	Reverting then to the judgment in <NAME> case (1896) I.L.R.
Precedent	23 Cal.
Precedent	536, their Lordships think that the expression "trustee" was loosely and, speaking with respect, wrongly applied to the shebait in order to bring the case under art.
Precedent	134.
Precedent	It is to be observed that in none of the three cases was there any examination of the laws and usages governing the respective institutions, or of the Madras decisions, in which the subject had been elaborately considered.
Precedent	40.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present Case the character of the endowment in relation to the superior is proved beyond contradiction.
Argument	It has  been found concurrently by both the <ORG> in India that the endowment was held by the defendant No.
Argument	26 for the general purposes of the institution.
Precedent	Considerable stress was laid on behalf of the respondents on the entry in <ORG> that the dedication was for a specific purpose-namely, the worship of the idol.
Precedent	The Inam proceedings did not create any dedication.
Precedent	They were instituted simply with the object of investigating titles to hold lands revenue free as belonging to valid endowments.
Precedent	The gifts were made long before the Inam proceedings by the Hindu kings or chiefs who then held the country.
Precedent	The purposes of the dedication must therefore be gathered from established usage and practice, and that has been found by the <ORG> in India.
Precedent	Again, "valuable consideration" forms the essence of both Section 10 of the Limitation Act and of Article 134 of Sch.
Precedent	I.
Precedent	Even if this were a specific trust, which it is not, it would be ridiculous to hold that the rent reserved in the grant to the second plaintiff was  "valuable consideration."
Precedent	41.
Precedent	In the Courts below the plaintiffs rested their claim mainly, if not entirely, on art.
Precedent	134.
Precedent	Before the Board an alternative argument has been advanced.
Precedent	It is contended that the second plaintiff acquired the title he is seeking to establish by twelve years' adverse possession under Article 144.
Precedent	That article declares that for a suit "for possession of immoveable property or any interest therein not hereby (i.e., by the schedule) otherwise specially provided for" the period of limitation is twelve years from the date when the possession of the defendant became adverse to the plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the argument it is necessary to discover when, according to the plaintiff, his adverse possession began.
Argument	He was let into possession by <ORG> 1 under a lease which purported to be a permanent lease, but which under the law could endure only for the grantor's lifetime.
Argument	According to the well settled law of India (apart from the question of necessity which does not here arise) a <ORG> is  incompetent to create any interest in respect of the math property to endure beyond his life.
Argument	With regard to mahant No.
Argument	2, he was vested with a power similarly limited.
Argument	He permitted the plaintiff to continue in possession and received the rent during his life The receipt of rent was with the knowledge which must be imputed to him that the tenancy created by his predecessor ended with his predecessor's life, and can, therefore, only be properly referable to a new tenancy created by himself.
Precedent	It was within his power to continue the tenancy during his life, and in these circumstances the proper inference is that it was so continued, and consequently the possession never became adverse until his death.
Precedent	42.
Precedent	There is one other point which deserves notice.
Precedent	The administration of the second mahant lasted until 1906.
Precedent	In 1905, however, the math went under the management of <ORG>, under a power of attorney granted by the mahant and his successor, who may conveniently be designated as mahant No.
Argument	3 .
Argument	Certain persons to whom the second plaintiff had sub-leased the lauds for ten years thereupon obtained from the <ORG> during the currency of their term a lease for seventeen years.
Argument	It is a direct lease from the <ORG> as holder of a power of attorney from <ORG>.
Argument	The lessees thereunder have been in possession for some years prior to this suit, and the object of the present action is not to keep the plaintiff in possession but to eject these possessors, who hold under a title proceeding from the <ORG> and <ORG>, and to upset the act of administration of <ORG>, on the ground of rights acquired adversely to the math by lapse of time during the incumbency of <ORG> No.
Argument	2.
Argument	43.
Argument	For the foregoing reasons their Lordships are of opinion that neither Article 134 nor Article 144 applies to this case; that the plaintiffs have acquired no title under either of those articles; that the judgment and decree of <ORG> must therefore be reversed, and the order of the Subordinate Judge di smissing the suit restored with costs here and of the appellate Court.
Argument	44.
RulingByPresentCourt	Their Lordships will humbly advise His Majesty accordingly.
