Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> , <NAME> & ORS Vs. RESPONDENT: STATE OF U.P.
Fact	& ORS.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 21/03/1997 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> ACT: HEADNOTE: JUDGMENT:  AND WRIT PETITION (C) NO.
Fact	511 OF 1995 J U D G M E N T K. Ramaswamy, J.
Argument	Leave granted.
Argument	This appeal by special leave arise from the judgment dated 4th August, 1983 of <ORG>, Lucknow Bench, In Writ petition No.
Argument	3088 of 1993.
Argument	The Writ petition also arises from the same facts but is filed by different set of officers challenging the promotion of respondents 2 to 10 (in the writ petition) the 2nd respondent (in the civil appeal) to the post of Superintending Engineers (Civil), Chief Engineer Level-II (Civil, Chief Engineer, Level-I and Engineer-in-Chief in <ORG> of <ORG>.
Fact	The petitioners seek a writ of mandamus to restrain the first respondent from Nos.
Fact	2 to  10.
Fact	They also seek writ of certiorari to quash the orders dated March 12, 1981 appointing the se cond respondent as Superintending Engineer on ad hoc basis an on regular basis w.e.f.
RulingByLowerCourt	April 10, 1991 as temporary Chief Engineer by order dated November 7, 1994 and orders promoting <NAME> and others as Superintending Engineers.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Governor exercising the power under proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution made <ORG> (Public works Department) (Higher) Rules, 1990 effective from October 15, 1990 (for short, the 'Rules').
RatioOfTheDecision	They came into force at once by operation of Rule 1(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	The services comprised thereunder are grouped as a Group 'A' posts, consisting of various posts.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under sub-rule (1) of Rule 4 which speaks of "Cadre of the Service", the strength of the service and of each category of the posts shall be such as may be determined by the <ORG> from time to time.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sub-Rule (2) gives power to determine the strength of service and of each category of posts until they are ordered to be varied.
RatioOfTheDecision	The posts of Executive Engineer (Civil), Executive Engineer (Electrical  and Mechanical), Superintending Engineer (Civil), Superintending Engineer (Electrical and mechanical), Chief Engineer Level-II (Civil), Chief Engineer Level-II (Electrical and Mechanical), Chief Engineer Level-I (Civil), and Engineer- Chief have been specified under tow categories, viz., the permanent and temporary cadre and strength in the respective cadres has been enumerated.
RatioOfTheDecision	In part III, Rule 5 provides method of recruitment by way of promotion from the substantive post of Assistant Engineers to the post of Executive Engineers and recruitment by promotion from amongst substantive post of Executive Engineers to the post of Superintending Engineers; from the Executive to Superintending Engineer Level - II and from Chief Engineer Level - II to Engineer-in-Chief respectively.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rule 6 prescribes reservation for the candidates belonging to Scheduled Casts (for Short, 'Dalits") and Scheduled Tribes (for Short, , 'Tribes') and other categories in accordance with the orders of the <ORG> in force at the time of  the recruitment.
RatioOfTheDecision	The qualifying service in the lower cadre for promotion to higher cadre is also prescribed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The procedure for determination of the vacancies to be reserved under Rule 6 for Dalits, Tribes and other categories has been provided in Rule 7.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rule 8 adumbrates that t recruitment to the post of Executive Engineer (Civil) shall be made on the basis of seniority subject to rejection of unfit and to the post of Superintending Engineer and above shall be made on the basis of merit thorough <ORG> to be constituted of officials specified thereunder.
RatioOfTheDecision	Recruitment to the post of Chief Engineer Level - II is by the process of screening and selection.
RatioOfTheDecision	The details thereof ar not material, hence omitted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rule 9 empowers the <ORG> to appoint the selected candidates in the order of seniority.
RatioOfTheDecision	If more than one persons are recruited in one selection by a committee appointed in their behalf, a combined order indicating the names of persons has to be issued in the seniority order as it stood in  the earlier cadre.
RatioOfTheDecision	The procedure has been prescribed in Rule 10 for declaration of the probation etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rule 11 empowers the <ORG> to confirm the appointee at the end of the probation of the extended probation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rule 12 prescribes procedure for determination of seniority.
RatioOfTheDecision	The other details are not material, hence are omitted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rule 18 is saving provision which provides that nothing in this rule shall effect reservations and other concessions required to be provided for Dalits, Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with the orders of the <ORG> issued from time to time in that regard.
RatioOfTheDecision	By proceedings dated March 8, 1973, the <ORG> had provided percentage in reservation for Dalits and Tribes @ 18% and 2% respectively in all services or posts to be filled in by promotion through process of selection either by direct recruitment or by competitive examination or limited department or by competitive examination or limited departmental examination .
RatioOfTheDecision	The said percentage has been incr eased by 21% for Dalits and retained 2% for the Tribes under the U.P.
RulingByLowerCourt	Service (reservation for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes) Act , 1994 (for short, the U.P.
RulingByLowerCourt	Act ') that came into force with effect from December 11, 1993.
RulingByLowerCourt	It has provided for the first time reservation @ 27% to the Other Backward Classes, 1973 Rules provided that if sufficient number of suitable candidates belonging to Dalits and Tribes were not available against reserved vacancies at the time of selection and if the vacancies were required to be filled up in the public interest, general category employees could be appointed on ad hoc basis.
RulingByLowerCourt	It had to be so mentioned in their orders of appointment that the provision/appointments were ad hoc and conferred no rights and that the vacancies would be carried forward to the following year.
RulingByLowerCourt	Carried forward vacancies would be carried forward to the following year.
RulingByLowerCourt	Carried forward vacancies could not exceed 45% of the total of such vacancies etc.
RulingByLowerCourt	Under Rule 3 of 1973 Rul es, for suitability purpose, Dalits and Tribes were treated to be same as the general candidates, i.e., the standard of suitability was same for all the candidates.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Dalits and Tribes who fulfilled the minimum required standard of merit would be selected upto to the limit of reservation.
RulingByLowerCourt	Under Rule 4, when Dalits and Tribes were promoted substantively or temporarily to the above reserved vacancies for the first time, their confirmation would be done under normal rules.
RulingByLowerCourt	The rule of the reservation was not applicable again for conformation in their case.
RulingByLowerCourt	Through the Government Omitted under 1973 Rules reservation in the posts pursuant to which required recruitment by promotion on the principle of seniority subject to rejection of unfit, by the rules issued on March 20, 1974, the Government amended the same and restored recruitment by promotion to the posts on the prescribed percentage.
RulingByLowerCourt	The reservation was limited to those services only where direct recruitment was not more than 50%.
RulingByLowerCourt	The promotion thereafter  was to be done according to rules and regulations under those provisions of reservation.
RulingByLowerCourt	The candidates who were eligible and suitable on the basis of seniority and were not found unfit, would be selected upto the reservation limit.
RulingByLowerCourt	Rule 2 of 1974 Rules provides for promotion to the posts where merit was also the consideration.
RulingByLowerCourt	The selected candidates from amongst the Dalits and Tribes and the general candidates would be shown in separate eligibility list to each category.
RulingByLowerCourt	The selected candidates were to be placed according to their inter se seniority of the original post.
RulingByLowerCourt	Afterward, all the three lists were to be compiled according to the inter se seniority and promotion were to be given against the vacancies accordingly and common seniority list was to be maintained.
RulingByLowerCourt	By orders issued on December 27, 1974, it was further clarified that "after reconsideration, the Government has withdrawn the restriction, i.e., reservation will be limited to those services on where direct recruitment is not more than 50%".
RulingByLowerCourt	T he above referred G.O.
RulingByLowerCourt	Will be treated to be modified accordingly.
RulingByLowerCourt	thus, the Dalits and Tribes were to get reservation in promotion on all posts/services.
RulingByLowerCourt	By proceedings dated July 5, 1984, it was further amplified, vis-a-vis that these order referred to hereinbefore thus: "The Government after reconsideration feels it necessary to clarify the process of preparation of separate eligibility lists in this regard".
RulingByLowerCourt	"Rule 2 of the 1984 order provided that :  "The total vacancies for promotion on the basis of seniority subject to rejection of unfit arises in any department/office at any time shall be divided into general candidates and SC/ST candidates on the basis candidates on the basis of G.Os.
RulingByLowerCourt	issued from time to time for reservation in promotions for these special categories.
RulingByLowerCourt	Each category shall be prepared separately in the order of their inter se seniority for available vacancies for each category and selection have been done from such eligibility list for each category and selection have been done from su ch eligibility list for each category on the basis of seniority subject to rejection of unfit.
RulingByLowerCourt	A combined list shall be prepared after selection of candidates form each category according to their inter se seniority.
RulingByLowerCourt	For ad hoc promotion also the above principle was made applicable.
RulingByLowerCourt	In this legal backdrop, it would thus, be seen that preceding 1990, promotions in <ORG> where regulated by above instructions and from 1990 Rules, they formed statutory base.
RulingByLowerCourt	The rule of reservation in promotion at all levels has, thus, been provided for the Dalits and Tribes.
RulingByLowerCourt	Under The U.P.
RulingByLowerCourt	Act it was extended to the <ORG> only in direct recruitment.
RulingByLowerCourt	When respondents 2 to 10 were considered and recruited as promotees from the cadre of Executive Engineer to that of Superintending Engineer and above cadres on the basis of merit, the appellants came to challenge their appointments.
RulingByLowerCourt	It was contended in <ORG> and reiterated by the learned counsel, M/s.
RulingByLowerCourt	<NAME> and <NAME> that in <CITATION_861069> .
RulingByLowerCourt	[1992 supp.
RulingByLowerCourt	(3) SCC 217] know as <NAME>'s case, eight of the nine judges, per majority [<NAME>,j.
RulingByLowerCourt	as he then was, having not participated on this issue] held that appointment by promotion under Articles 16(2) and 16(4) of the Constitution is unconstitutional.
Precedent	In particular, they placed strong reliance on the judgment of <NAME>, J.
Argument	Speaking for three judges) and <NAME>, J.
Argument	(for himself) in that behalf.
Argument	They referred to question No.
Argument	7 framed by the <ORG> and contended that the finding has been recorded in paras 859 (7) and 860(8) by <NAME>, in paras 242-431(10) by <NAME>, j., In paras 323-24-D by <NAME>, J. and <NAME>, J.
Argument	In para 381, by <NAME>, J. in Para 553-553 and by <NAME>, J.
Argument	In paras 623-625.
Argument	On that premise, it was contended that the 1996 Rules are ultra vires and the promotion of the respondents unconstitutional.
Argument	It is also contended that having declared the promotions under Articles 16(1) and 16(4) of the constitution as unconstitutional, overruling the judgment of a <ORG> of f ive judges of this Court in the General Manager, southern Railway.
Argument	<NAME> [(1962) 2 SCR 586] the same being not correct in law.
Argument	<NAME>, J. with whom <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, J., as he then was, had concurred, and <NAME>, J.
Argument	Having also concurred, expressly overruled prospectively the applicability of the rule of reservation in promotion operative for a period of five year November 16, 1992 i.e.
Precedent	the dare of the judgment.
Precedent	The contention of the petitioners is that it is only a minority view.
Precedent	The ratio, therefore, is unconstitutional.
Precedent	Under Article 145(5) of the Constitution, it does not constitute majority judgment.
Precedent	Having declared that the reservation in promotion as unconstitutional , it is void ab initio under Article 13(3) of the Constitution.
Precedent	It bears, thereby, no legal or constitutional existence.
Precedent	The promotion made to respondents 2 to 10 at all levels therefore, is unconstitutional.
Precedent	The operation of the unconstitutional direction cannot be postponed by prospective overruling of Rangacha ri's ratio.
Precedent	The judgment of <NAME>, <NAME> concurred by <NAME>, <NAME> being minority judgment, cannot operate prospectively.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if it assumed that it is a mojority judgment, it is inconsistent with and contrary to the constitutional scheme of the Articles 14 and 16 violating the fundamental rights of the appellants/petitioners and, therefore, the power under Article 142 of the Constitution cannot be exercised to curtail the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is a distinction between the conclusions and directions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Justice <NAME> and Justice <NAME> expressed their concurrence on the conclusions and not with directions given by <NAME>, j.
RatioOfTheDecision	The direction for prospective overruling of <NAME>'s case and for operation of <NAME>'s ratio after five years in only by a minority of four judge.
RatioOfTheDecision	It being inconsistent with and contrary to the scheme of the Constitution in exercise of the power of judicial review, the <ORG> cannot postpone the operation of the judgment to a fut ure date, which violates there fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	In support thereof, they placed strong reliance on the judgment in <CITATION_1353689> .
RatioOfTheDecision	[, para 15] and <CITATION_1496509> .
RatioOfTheDecision	[, para 37[.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having declared the reservation in promotions as void, the prospective over-ruling is illegal as it is no part of the doctrine of stare decisis.
Precedent	In support thereof, they placed reliance on <CITATION_1124708> .
Precedent	[1981 (2) SCR 1].
Precedent	Postponement of operation of the judgment amounts to judicial legislation which is inconsistent with the power of judicial review which empowers only to declare the law to be unconstitutional and not to make the law.
Argument	It is further contended the exercise of Article 142 to postpone the operation of judgement after five years amounts to perpetration of void action and is violative of the appellants' fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 16 (1) of the Constitution.
Argument	The order under Article 142 , being only a remedial measure to do complete justice, cannot operate as a substantive right.
Argument	The  direction to operate the scheme of reservation in promotion for five years is inconsistent with and in derogation of the substantive right to equality guaranteed under Articles 14 and 16(1).
Argument	Therefore, the Scheme is unconstitutional.
Argument	Prospective operation of <ORG>'s case amounts to judicial legislation and amounts to temporary amendment to the Constitution or an addition in the from of proviso to Articles 16(1) or 16(4) of the Constitution.
Argument	<NAME>, learned Additional Advocate General, contended that the Micro Lexicon surgery conducted by the counsel for the appellants-petitioners to make distinction between conclusions and directions requires no detailed examination.
Argument	The end result is that five out of eight learned judges, who opined in the negative on the issued reservation in promotion direction that reservation, from that date, will continue for five years, while giving liberty to the appropriate <ORG> to make suitable legislative amendments.
Precedent	In fact, the right to promotion is a facet  of right to recruitment to a post or a office under the <ORG>.
Precedent	No express provision in required in this behalf in Article 16(1) or 16(4) of the Constitution.
Precedent	After the judgment in <NAME>'s case, however, the Constitution (77th Amendment) Act was enacted by the parliament which was come into force w.e.f.
Precedent	June 17, 1995 for which date Article 16 (4A) was brought into the Constitution.
Precedent	It provides that "nothing in this Article shall prevent the <ORG> from making any provision for reservation in matters of promotion of any class or classes of posts in the services under <ORG> in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes which, in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes which , in the opinion of the <ORG>, are not adequately represented i the services under the <ORG>".
Precedent	Thereby, the <ORG> has re-manifested its policy that right to reservation in promotion is a part of constitutional scheme or public policy in order to accord socio-economic empowerment and dignity of person and status to the Dalits  and Tribes.
Precedent	The right to reservation in promotion would be available to Dalits and Tribes in any, class or class, of post in the state does not get adequate representation of Dalits & Tribes.
RatioOfTheDecision	This due to the historical evidence that the Dalits and Tribes are socially, educationally and economically deprived, denied and disadvantaged sections of the society to make their right to equality meaningful.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are equally entitled to the facilities and apportunities, by way of reservation in promotions, and the <ORG> in compliance of the mandate of the Preamble.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 14 , 21 , 38 , 46 and 335 of constitution, has provided them with the right to equality of opportunity is all post of classes of posts in the services under the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the majority section of the society are required to reconcile to an accept the equal fundamental rights of Dalits and Tribes guaranteed under Articles 16 and 14 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right to reservation in promotions is not an anathema to right to equality enshrined to  other general candidates.
RatioOfTheDecision	The competing rights of both should co-exist and consistently be given effect by balancing the abstract doctrine of equality and the distributive justice would filled in the gap.
RatioOfTheDecision	Only upholding of affirmative action of <ORG> by pragmatic interpretation under rule of law would enable the <ORG> to harmonise competing rights of all sections of the society.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no dichotomy or distinction between the conclusion and directions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Paragraph 680(8) should be read with the conclusion of <NAME>.
Precedent	J. in paragraph 552 and 555 and, therefore, the opinions of <NAME>, CJ.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, as the issue of reservation in promotion constitute majority of five judges under Article 145(5) of the Constitution.
Precedent	Prospective over over-ruling is a part of constitutional policy.
Precedent	For application, different perceptions would be considered and given effect while over - ruling the prior decision.
Precedent	<NAME>'s ratio had operated as constitutional law for over three decades  and rights were settled on the basis.
Precedent	Therefore.
Precedent	With a view to enable the appropriate <ORG> to amend the law in theat behalf, the operation of the judgment was postponed for five years.
Precedent	It is, there fore, not judicial legislation but a part of the declaration granted by the <ORG>.
Precedent	In pith and substance, it is a facet of suspending the operation of the judgement for the years so that the constitutional objective of providing reservation in promotion to Dalits and tribes would operate without any hiatus.
Precedent	The decision in <NAME> Vs. <ORG> of Punjab [] by <ORG> re- affirms that the decision in <NAME>'s case on promotion was by a majority.
Precedent	Obviously <NAME>'s ration had upheld the principle of reservation in promotions and applied "running account theory" put forth by the <ORG> to give practical content to equality in results applying the roster points earmarked for the Dalits and Tribes, apart from equal opportunity to them to compete with the general candidates for general posts.
Precedent	Th e employees from general sections and Dalits and Tribes are integrated in the roster system to harmonise the competing interests.
Precedent	The Dalits and Tribes Selected for promotion on merit in open competition are bot to be treated as part of reserved quota.
Precedent	That contemporaneous understanding of the operation of law is in accordance with the law laid in para 860(8) of <NAME>'s case.
Precedent	So, it is a valid direction.
Precedent	The reservation in promotions in all the services or posts under the State of Uttar Pradesh was in vogue from March 1973.
Precedent	The legislature of Uttar Pradesh reiterated the need for continuance of the reservation not only in direct recruitment but also its continuance, as mentioned in the U.P Act the U.P.
Precedent	Act came into force w.e.f.
Precedent	December 11, 1993 The judgment in <NAME>'s case was delivered on November 16, 1992.
Precedent	All the promotions made prior to that date were held valid in <NAME>'s case.
Precedent	The impugned judgement of <ORG> was rendered on August 4, 1993 while the Constitution (77th Amendment) Act of 199 5 came into force on June 17, 1995.
Precedent	The promotions of respondents came to be made between November 17, 1992 and December 11, 1993, i.e., within five years of the directions in para 860(8) in <NAME>'s case and agreed to by other learned judges.
Precedent	Therefore, it was contended that the promotions to and appointment of the private respondents is constitutional.
Precedent	He further contended that right to promotion is not a fundamental right to general candidates while it is so in the case of Dalits and Tribes.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is subject to rules.
RatioOfTheDecision	The policy of the <ORG> as per the constitutional objectives is that the Dalits and Tribes should be given adequate representation in all posts or classes of posts and services under the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reservation in promotion is one of the policies under the Constitution and the statutory share in the governance makes no discrimination nor offend Article 14 as the rights of general and reserved employees.
RatioOfTheDecision	are to be mutually balanced.
RatioOfTheDecision	The law is always presumed o be constitutional until it is decl ared otherwise.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Rules and the Act are constitutionally valid.
RatioOfTheDecision	By operation of Article 13(1 ), pre-constitutional law, if declared void, is void only from the date of the Constitution, namely, from January 26, 1950 and though the post-constitutional law may be void from its inception.
RatioOfTheDecision	To adjust the competing rights of the general and Dalit and <ORG> employees, there is no prohibition for this Court to postpone the operation of the judgment in <NAME>'s case or to so prospectively over-rule <NAME>'s ratio as to be operative from expiry of five years from the date of judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	The intention behind the direction appears to be that the law in the transition, as per the constitutional scheme of reservation in promotions, would be smooth and operate as a continuous scheme.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the Government makes no amendment to the statute, after expiry of five years, the operation of the scheme of reservation in promotion would come to a stop.
RatioOfTheDecision	By constitution (77th Amendment) Act , 1995, the scheme of reservation in promoti ons in continued without any need to bring about amendment to the statutory rules wince Article 16(4A) itself provided constitutional operation of reservation in promotion obviating the necessity to amend all statutory rules.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Prospective operation of law for 5 years is consistent with the doctrine of stare decisis as the declaratory law becomes operative therefore.
RatioOfTheDecision	The ratio of <NAME>'s case has no application.
Precedent	Therein, the appellant- <NAME> was meted out with a hostile discrimination denying him the normal trial and right of appeal and he was subjected to special trial by <ORG>, depriving him of the statutory appeal violating his fundamental right to equality.
Precedent	Therefore, this Court had held that the direction given under Article 142 to constitute a separate <ORG> presided over by a <ORG> Judge was inconsistent with the fundamental right to equality guaranteed by Article 14.
Precedent	From that perspective, it was held therein that the exercise of power under Article 142 should be consistent with  the constitutional scheme.
Precedent	<CITATION_120358> [(1967) 2 SCR 762 at 808], it was held that the power of this <ORG> under Article 142 is very wide and it cannot be controlled by any statutory prohibition.
Precedent	<CITATION_27098883> [ at 634 paragraph 83], this <ORG> held that the competing rights are required to be adjusted by balancing them.
Precedent	The <ORG> in <NAME>'s case, being conscious of the consequences and pervasive effect of its declaration on the policy of reservation in promotions, by the arm of the judicial review, extended the time to enable the executive to suitable amend its law.
Precedent	This <ORG>, therefore, set the time limit upto which existing law would remain in operation, as the selection procedure is a continuous process to fill up existing or anticipated vacancies each year.
Precedent	The gap between equality in law and equality in results was bridged by Article 1694A ).
Precedent	It is not case of hostile discrimination meted out to any section of the citizens but one of adjustment balancing the competing rights of two groups  of the citizens of the country.
Precedent	The directions issued, in exercise of the power under Article 142 , therefore, was not in violation of the fundamental rights of the employees belonging to the general category.
Precedent	The direction issued under Article 142 is, therefore, neither unconstitutional nor contrary to the law.
Precedent	In fact, the direction is to prevent injustice as is provided in Article 46 of the Constitution.
Precedent	<CITATION_630326> .
Precedent	[], <CITATION_870926> s/o <NAME> & Anr.
Precedent	[JT 1996 (9) SC 320], <ORG> <ORG> & Ors.
Precedent	[JT 1997 (1) SC 384] and s. <CITATION_1775396> .
Argument	9 SCC 466, this Court held that the Constitution (77th Amendment) Act , 1995 has given effect to the law laid down in <NAME>'s case as enshrined in Articles 14 and 16(1) of the Constitution.
Argument	<NAME>, learned senior counsel' appearing for private respondents, while adopting the arguments of <NAME>, argued that the prospective over-ruling of <NAME>' ratio, the dis tinction of stare decisis and the constitutional invalidation of a legislative enactment may be kept in view.
RatioOfTheDecision	The ratio in <NAME>'s case having prevailed the field for over three decades, majority in <NAME>'s case opined that the ratio in <NAME>'s case would remain operative for a further period of five years.
RatioOfTheDecision	Exercise of the power of judicial review and power under Article 142 are the judicial tools given to this court to prevent injustice.
RatioOfTheDecision	By judicial craftsmanship, the directions came to be issued to elongate the constitutional and public policy of reservation in promotion, until appropriate amendments are brought on statute within five years.
RatioOfTheDecision	He cited instances of staying the operation of the judgement by <ORG>, Pending grant of leave under Article 136.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision to postpone the effect of <NAME>'s case is a legal policy as a part of the inherent power preserved in this <ORG> by Article 142.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG>, by prospective operation of a statute or operation of a judgment has no sanctioned a ny unconstitutional scheme but intended to postpone the operation of the declaration of law to a future date.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME> <CITATION_65796> [], this <ORG>, with a view to void constitutional crisis in dispensation of service dispute between public servants and the appropriate <ORG> or instrumentally, by the administrative <ORG> constituted under the Administrative <ORG> Act , instead of declaring the Act ultra vires.
RatioOfTheDecision	issued mandamus to make suitable amendments to the <ORG> Act so as to be consistent with the constitutional scheme.
RatioOfTheDecision	The judicial creativity, therefore, cannot be cribbed or crabbed by any set proposition or standard formulation.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are required to be modulated depending upon the fact situation in a given case on hand and the consequences of the judgment under consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>'s ratio having held the field for three decades, the conclusions and the directions which are integral part of part 860(8) of <NAME>'s judgment are part of ratio decidendi and are intended to be ope rative after a period of five years from the date of the judgment unless.
RatioOfTheDecision	By then, suitable amendments are brought out.
Argument	Dr. <NAME>, learned counsel appearing for the intervener, contended that the Dalits and the Tribes have equal constitutional rights.
Precedent	The Constitutional has provided in their favor protective and positive discrimination by providing for reservation in promotions are part of equality of opportunity, status, social and economic justice, dignity of person which were given effect to by the Constitution (77th Amendment) Act , 1995.
Precedent	Reservation in promotion itself is a fundamental right to the Dalits and Tribes.
Precedent	They claim equality of opportunity at all levels or promotions to the respective cadres/grade/categories of posts.
Precedent	The right to reservation in promotion is required to be balanced with competing right to equality of the general employees.
Precedent	Article 16(4A) gives effect to that balancing competing right.
Precedent	<CITATION_13862901> [ in para 102], this Court worked out the competing claims by a sch emes directing minority institutions to fill up 50% of admissions by the general candidates while ensuring to the minorities their constitutional right under Article 30(1) to admit to students belonging to minority community with balance 50% seats.
Precedent	Such declaration is consistent not only with the scheme of the Constitution but also special protection of the rights of the minorities.
Precedent	Reservation in promotions in Article 16(4A) also requires same interpretation.
Argument	If so viewed, there would be no violation of Article 13(2).
Argument	The Prospective over-ruling of <NAME>'s ratio in <NAME>'s case, is constitutional and fulfils competing equality between sections of the society.
Argument	<NAME>, in reply, contended that Article 145(5) requires that for a judgment to be majority judgment, concurrence of the majority learned Judges constituting the Bench is necessary.
Argument	There was no need for four other learned Judges to express their concurrence with <NAME>, J. as they felt that the reservation in promotion is void  from the inception, by operation of Article 13(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	Unless they agreed to the view expressed by <NAME>, it could not be a majority judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Separate judgments of the learned judges are self-operative from the date of the judgment in the absence their express concurrence for prospective over- ruling of <NAME> ratio.
RatioOfTheDecision	The prospective over-ruling evolved under Article 142 is inconsistent with the ratio in <NAME> case which had held that an amendment to the Constitution violating the fundamental right, unless the Act receives protective umbrella of Schedule IX, is void from inception.
RatioOfTheDecision	The ratio in <NAME>'s case laid by <NAME> and agreed to by other three Judges does not amount to a statutory law nor it receives any protective umbrella under Schedule IX by is one declared under Article 141.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, <NAME>'s ratio of prospective over-ruling of <NAME>'s case is unconstitutional and void ab initio.
Precedent	Article 142 , therefore, does not save its voidity; nor can the void order be gi ven effect to or saved by Article 142.
Precedent	<CITATION_1264252> .
Precedent	[AIR 1974 SC 1], <ORG> had held that the code of equality and equal opportunity is a charter for equals; equality of opportunity is matters of promotion means an equal promotional opportunity for persons who fall, substantially, within the same class.
Precedent	A classification of employees can, therefore, be made for first identifying and then distinguishing members of one class from those of another.
Precedent	Classification on the basis of educational qualifications made with a view to achieving administrative efficiency was upheld.
Precedent	In service jurisprudence, a distinction between right and interest has always been maintained.
Precedent	Seniority is a facet of interest.
Precedent	When the Rules prescribe the methods of selection/recruitment, seniority is governed by the ranging given and governed by such rules as was held by a bench of three judges in <CITATION_1260626> [(1993) supp.
Precedent	1 SCC 730 in paras 14 & 15] another Bench of three judges had held that no one has a v ested right to promotion or seniority but an officer has an interest to seniority acquired by working out the rules.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <ORG>.
Precedent	[JT (1996) SC 274], a Bench to which tow of us, <NAME> & <NAME>, <ORG>., were members, following the above ratio, held that no one has a "vested right to promotion or seniority but an officer has an interest to seniority acquired by working out the rules".
Precedent	It could be taken away only by operation of valid law.
Precedent	<CITATION_1887454> .
Precedent	[(1975) 1 SCR 449] <ORG> had held that Rule 18 of the Andhra Pradesh Engineering Service Rules which confers a right of actual promotion or a right to be considered by promotion is a rule prescribing conditions of service.
Precedent	In Md.
Precedent	<NAME> v. <NAME> [1970 SLR 768], another Bench of three Judges had held that any rule which affects that promotion of a person relates to conditions of service.
Precedent	<CITATION_1215617> [1967 SLR 753] a Bench of two judges had held that the rule which merely affects chances  of promotion cannot be regarded as varying condition of service.
Precedent	Chances of promotion are not condition of service.
Precedent	<CITATION_20762> [], <ORG> had held that a rule which merely affects the changes of promotion does not amount to change in the conditions of service.
Precedent	<CITATION_1810596> [(1993) supp.
Precedent	3 SCC 575] a <ORG> of three judges following the above ratio, with approval, had held at page 602 para 31, that no employee has a right to promotion but he has only the right to be considered for promotion according to rules.
Precedent	Chances of promotion are not conditions of service and are defeasible in accordance with the law.
Precedent	In the light of this normal run of service Jurisprudence, the question emerges whether the right to promotion is a fundamental right and the direction of prospective operation of the decision is Mandal Judgment, after five years, violates equality enshrined in Articles 14 and 16(1) and is void under Article 13(2) of the Constitution?
Precedent	Right to reservation itself is a fundamental rig ht under Article 16(1) as was laid in <CITATION_1130169> [1976 (2) SCC 310] which was reiterated in <NAME>'s case.
Precedent	The permanent bureaucracy in Part XIV of the Constitution is an integral scheme of the Constitution to aid and assist the political executive in the governance of the country.
Precedent	<NAME>, one of the greatest Presidents of the United <ORG>s of America, a noble should, who laid his life in giving right to equality to the <NAME>, a living truth enshrined in 14th Amendment, had stated that democracy, is by the people, of the people and for the people.
Precedent	Democracy governed by rule of law brings about change in the social order only through rule of law.
Precedent	Every citizen or group of people has right to a share in the governance of the <ORG>.
Precedent	The Dalits and Tribes equally being citizens have a right to a share in the governance of the <ORG> and in the permanent democracy service conditions are assured under Article 309 to 312A of the Constitution subject to the pleasure of the President under Article 310  and also the express exclusion of its applicability to the specified services in Articles 33 and 34.
Precedent	The right to seek equality of opportunity to a office or a post under the <ORG> is a guaranteed fundamental right to all citizens alike under Article 16(1 ), the specie of Article 14 , the genus.
Precedent	<CITATION_632769> [] it was held that public employment opportunity is a national wealth and all citizens are equally entitled to share it.
Precedent	<CITATION_268805> .
Precedent	[(1991) supp.
Precedent	1 SCC 600 at 737 para 271] it was held that law is social engineering to remove the existing imbalance and to further the progress, serving the needs of <ORG> the rule of law.
Precedent	The prevailing social conditions and actualities of life are to be taken into account in adjudging whether or not the impugned legislation would observe the purpose of the society.
Precedent	The historical evidence of disabilities worked against the Dalits and the Tribes received acknowledgement in Articles 17 which provides for abolition of practice o f untouchability: Article 15(2) which provides prohibition of access to public places and article 29(2) which provides for prohibition of denial of admission into educational institutions.
Precedent	So social educational and economic protection is provided to them under Article 46 of the Constitution.
Precedent	Article 335 which is part of the scheme of equality of opportunity in governance of the <ORG> in chapter XVI, by a special provision, enjoins the <ORG> that the claims of the members of the Dalits and the Tribes shall be taken into consideration consistently with the efficiency of administration in the making of the appointment to service and post in connection with the affairs of the Union of a <ORG>.
Precedent	<CITATION_1685522> [A.I.R.
Precedent	1987 SC 537 in para 21 and 23] a Bench of three judges had held that Article 335 is to be read with Article 46 which enjoins that the <ORG> shall promotes with special care the educational and economic interest of the weaker section, in particular, the Dalits and the Tribes and shall protect them  from social injustice, Article 38 of the Constitution enjoins the <ORG> to secure and protect a social order in which justice, social, economic and political shall inform all the institutions of the national life.
Precedent	The <ORG> shall, in particular, strive to minimise the inequalities in income, and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, "facilities" and "opportunities", not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people residing different areas or engaged in different vacations.
Precedent	The Preamble of the Constitution assures to every citizen justice, social, economic and political and "equality of status" and opportunity assuring dignity of the individual to integrate all sections of the society in a integrated Bharat.
Precedent	In <ORG> & ors.
Precedent	V/s Union of India & ors.
Precedent	{(1995) 3 SCC 45] and <ORG> etc V/s.
Precedent	<ORG> etc.
Precedent	[(1996 (9) SCALE 70] and <ORG> & Anr, vs. <ORG> (4) SC 555] social j ustice was held by three-judge Benches to be fundamental right approving the view taken in <ORG> & Ors.
Precedent	V/s, <NAME> & Ors.
Precedent	[(1992) 1 SCC 441].
Precedent	In <NAME> V/s <NAME> & Anr.
Precedent	[(1995) Supp.
Precedent	2 SCC 549]; <NAME> & Ors.
Precedent	V/s.
Precedent	State of Karnataka & Ors.
Precedent	[(1995) 6 SCC 309] and <ORG> State of karnataka & Anr.
Precedent	[(1996) 10 SCC 533] right to economic empowerment was held by the two judges Benches of this Court to be fundamental right.
Precedent	It is now settled legal position that social justice is a fundamental right and equally economic empowerment is a fundamental right to the disadvantaged.
Precedent	Article 51A(j) enjoins that it shall be the day of every citizen to strive towards excellence in all spheres of individual and collective activities so that the nation constantly rises to higher levels of endeavour and achievement.
Precedent	Equality of status and dignity of the individual will be secured when the employees belonging to Dalits and Tribes are given an opportunity of  appointment by promotion in higher echelons of service so that they will have opportunity to strive towards excellence individually and collectively with other employees in improving the efficiency of administration.
Precedent	Equally they get the opportunity to improve their efficiency and opportunity to hold offices of responsibility at hierarchical levels.
Precedent	<CITATION_1857950> [1950 SCR 88], per majority <ORG> had held that the operation of each Article of the Constitution and its effect on the protection of fundamental rights is required to be measured independently and not in conjoint consideration of all the relevant provisions.
Precedent	The above ratio was overruled by a Bench of 11 Judges in R.C.
Precedent	Cooper V. Union of India [] This Court had held that all the provisions of the Constitution conjointly be read on the effect and operation of fundamental right of the citizens when the state action infringes the right of the individual.
Precedent	In D.T.C.
Precedent	case (supra) [(1991) supp.
Precedent	1 SCC 600 at 750-51, paras 297 and at  298] it was held that:  "It is well settled constitutional law that different articles in the chapter on Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles in Part IV of the Constitution must be read as an integral and incorporeal whole with possible and incorporeal whole with possible overlapping with the subject matter of what is to be protected by its various provisions particularly the Fundamental Rights.
Precedent	....The nature and content of the protection of the fundamental rights is measured not by the operation rights is measured not by the operation of the <ORG> action, must be adjudged in the light of its operation upon the rights of the individuals or group of the individual in all their dimensions.
Precedent	It is not the object of the authority making the law impairing the right of the citizen nor the form of action taken that determines the protection he can claim: it is the effect of the law and of the action upon the right which of the action upon the right which attract the jurisdiction of the court to grant re lief.
Precedent	<CITATION_1215719> [] the fundamental rights and directive principles are held to be the conscience of the Constitution and disregard of either would upset the equibalance built up therein.
Precedent	In <NAME> case it was held that different articles in the chapter of fundamental rights of the Constitution must be read as an integral whole with possible overlapping of subject matter of what is sought to be protected by its various provisions particularly by articles relating fundamental rights of the Constitution must be read as an integral whole, with possible overlapping of the subject matter of what is sought to be protected by its various provisions particularly by articles relating to fundamental rights contained in Part III of the Constitution do not represent entirely separate streams of rights which do not mingle at many points.
Precedent	They are all parts of an integrated scheme in the Constitution.
Precedent	Their waters must mix to constitute that grand flow of unimpeded and impartial justice; social, economic and  political justice; social, economic and political, and of equality of status and opportunity which imply absence of unreasonable or unfair discrimination between individuals or groups or protected by Part III of the Constitution, out of which Articles 14, 19 and 21 are the most frequently invoked to test the validity of executive as well as legislative actions when these actions are subjected to judicial scrutiny.
Precedent	Fundamental rights are necessary means to develop one's own personality and to carve out one's own life in the manner one likes best, subject to reasonable restrictions imposed in the paramount interest of the society and to a just, fair and reasonable procedure.
Precedent	The effect of restriction procedure.
Precedent	The effect of restriction of deprivation and not of the form adopted to deprive the right is the conclusive test.
Precedent	It already seen that the right to a public employment is a constitutional right under Article 16(1).
Precedent	All matters relating to employment include the right to continue in service till the empl oyee reaches superannuation or his service is duly terminated in accordance with just, fair and reasonable procedure prescribed under the provisions of the Constitution or the rules made under proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution or the statutory provision or the rules, regulations or instruction having statutory favour made thereunder.
Precedent	But the relevant provisions must be conformable to the rights guaranteed in Parts III and IV of the Constitution.
Precedent	Article 21 guarantees the right to live which includes right to livelihood, to a many the assured tenure of service is the source, the deprivation thereof must be in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law conformable to the mandates of Articles 14 and 21 as be fair, just and reasonable nut not fanciful, oppressive or at vagary.
Precedent	The need for the fairness, justness or reasonableness of the procedure was elaborately considered in <NAME> case and it hardly needs reiteration."
Precedent	It would, therefore, be necessary to consider the effect of reservation  in promotion to the Dalits and the Tribes vis-a-vis the employees belonging to the general categories; it is a balancing right to equality in results and adjusting the competing rights of all sections.
Precedent	<CITATION_703393> .
Precedent	[(1975) 1 SCR 173 at 252] through a Bench of nine Judges, this Court Pointed out that to establish equality, it would require absolute identical treatment of both the minority and majority.
Precedent	That would result only in equality in law but inequality in fact.
Precedent	The distinction need not be elaborated.
Precedent	It is obvious that equality in law precludes discrimination of any kind whereas equality in fact may involve the necessity of differential treatment in order to attain a result which establishes and equilibrium between different situations.
Precedent	To give adequate representation to the Dalits and Tribes in all posts or classes of posts or services, a reality and truism.
Precedent	Facilities and opportunities, as enjoined in Article 38 are required to be provided to them to achieve the equality of representation in re al content.
Precedent	In Dr. Pradeep Jain & Ors.
Precedent	V/s.
Precedent	Union of India & Ors.
Precedent	[] a three-judge Bench of this Court considered the concept of equality under Articles 14 and 15(1) of the Constitution and had held in para 13 at page 676 thus:  "Now the concept of equality under the Constitution is a dynamic concept.
Precedent	It takes within its sweep every process of equalisation and protective discrimination.
Precedent	Equality must not remain mere idle incantation but it must become a living reality for the large masses of people.
Precedent	In a hierarchical society with an indelible feudal stamp and incurable actual inequality.
Precedent	It is absurd to suggest the progressive measures to eliminate group disabilities and promote collective equality are antagonistic to equality on the ground that every individual is entitled to equality of opportunity based purely on merit judged by the marks obtained by him.
Precedent	We cannot countenance such a suggestion, for to do so would make the equality clause sterile and perpetuate existing inequalities.
Precedent	Equality of opportunit y is not simply a matter of legal equality .
Precedent	Its existence depends not merely on the absence of disabilities but on the presence of abilities.
Precedent	Where, therefore, there is inequality, in fact, legal equality always tends to accentuate it.
Precedent	What the famous poet <NAME> said graphically is very true, namely, "once law for the Lion and the Ox is oppression".
Precedent	Those who are unequal, in fact, cannot be treated by identical standard; that may be equality in law but it would certainly not be real equality.
Precedent	It is, therefore, necessary to take into account de facto inequalities which exist in the society and to take affirmative action by way of giving preference to the socially and economically disadvantaged persons or inflicting handicaps on those more advantageously placed, in order to bring about reals equality.
Precedent	Such affirmative action though apparently discriminatory is calculated to produce equality on a broader basis by eliminating de facto inequalities and placing the weaker sections or the community on footi ng of equality with the stranger and more powerful sections so that each member of the community, whatever is his birth, occupation or social position may enjoy equal opportunity of using to the full his natural endowments of physique, of character and of intelligence.
Precedent	:  In <NAME>, <NAME> ors.
Precedent	[(1990) 3 SCC 130 at 138] a Constitution Bench to which one of us, <NAME>, J.
Precedent	Was a member, had held in para 8 thus:  "Therefore, reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purpose of advancement of socially and educationally backward citizens to make them equal with other segments of community in educational or job facilities is the mandate of the Constitution.
Precedent	Equality is the dictate of our Constitution.
Precedent	Article 14 ensures equality in its fullness to all our citizens.
Precedent	State is enjoined not to deny to any persons equality before law and equal protection of the law within the territory of India.
Precedent	Where it is necessary, however, for the p urpose of bringing bout real equality of opportunity between those who are unequals, certain reservations are necessary and these should be ensured.
Precedent	Equality under the Constitution is a dynamic concept which must cover every process of equalisation.
Precedent	Equality must become a living reality for the large masses of the people.
Precedent	Those who are unequal, in fact, cannot be treated by identical standards; that may be equality in law but it would certainly not be real equality.
Precedent	Existence of equality of opportunity depends not merely on the absence of disabilities.
Precedent	It is not simply a matter of legal equality.
Precedent	De jure equality must ultimately finds its raison d`etre in de facto equality.
Precedent	The <ORG> must, Therefore, resort to compensatory <ORG> action for the purpose of making people who are factually unequal in their wealth, education or social environment, equal in which exist in the society and to take affirmative action by way of giving preference and reservation to the socially and economically disadvantaged persons or  inflicting handicaps on those more advantageously placed, in order to bring about real equality.
Precedent	Such affirmative action though apparently discriminatory is calculated to produce equality on a broader basis by eliminating be facto inequalities and placing the weaker sections of the community on a footing of equality with the stronger and more powerful sections so that each member of the community, whatever is his birth, occupation or social position may enjoy equal opportunity of using to the full his natural endowments of physical, of character and of intelligence."
Precedent	By abstract application of equality under Article 14 , every citizen is treated alike without there being any discrimination.
Precedent	Thereby, the equality in fact subsists.
Precedent	Equality prohibits the States from making discrimination among citizens on any ground.
Precedent	However, inequality in fact without differential treatment between the advantaged and disadvantaged subsists.
Precedent	In order to bridge the gap between inequality in results and equality in fact, protec tive discrimination provides equality of opportunity.
Precedent	Those who are unequal cannot be treated by identical standards.
Precedent	Equality in law certainly would not be real equality.
Precedent	In the circumstances, equality of opportunity depends not merely on the absence of disparities but on the presence of abilities and opportunities.
Precedent	De jure equality must ultimately find its raison d'etre in de facto equality.
Precedent	State must, therefore, resort to protective discrimination for the purpose of making people, who factually unequal, equal in specific areas.
Precedent	It would, therefore, be necessary to take into account de facto inequality in which exists the society and to take affirmative action by giving preferences and making reservation in promotions in favour of the Dalits and Tribes or by "inflicting handicaps on those more advantageously placed", in order to bring about equality, such affirmative action, though apparently discriminatory, is calculated to produce equality on a broader basis by eliminating de facto inequality and placing  Dalits and Tribes on the footing of equality with non-tribal employees so as to enable them to enjoy equal opportunity and to unfold their full potentiality.
Precedent	Protective discrimination envisaged in Articles 16(4) and 16 (4-A) is the armour to establish the said equilibrium between equality in law and equality in results as a fact to the disadvantaged.
Precedent	The Principle of reservation in promotion provides equality in results.
Precedent	From this backdrop, the socio-economic justice assured by Article 46 , the Preamble and Article 39 would get practical content and effect so that the dignity of person and equality to status assured to them would become meaningful and real.
Precedent	Harmonious interpretation of all these provisions should, therefore, pave way for the target/goals.
Precedent	So they need to be conjointly read so that every provision/clause/concept in different Articles of the Constitution is given full play, effect and flesh and blood are infused in their dry bones.
Precedent	In <NAME>'s case, admittedly, the two Government Memorandum  provided for reservation to OBCs.
Precedent	in initial direct recruitment in central services.
Precedent	The question of reservation in promotion was non-issue as conceded in that case itself and across the bar: but the learned judges, with all due respect and deference to their learned view, decided a non-issue, though objected to on the ground that counsel appearing for the parties had put their heads together and formed the issue and reference was made to a larger <ORG> so that the issue was decided on that premise though it is settled constitutional law that constitutional issues cannot be decided unless the issues directly arises for decision, with due respect the <ORG> decided a non-issue on a constitutional law affecting 22% of the national population and held that Article 16(1) read with Article 16(4) provides right to reservation in initial recruitment.
Precedent	The framers of the Constitution did nor intend to provided for reservation in promotion.
Precedent	Since Article 335 speaks of efficiency of administration, reservation in promoti on to the Dalits and Tribes, without competition with non-reserved employees would affect efficiency in service is unconstitutional.
Precedent	IT si an admitted case that as there was no issue, nor was any evidence adduced to prove whether efficiency of administration was deteriorated due to reservation in promotion; nor was it pointed out from the facts of any case.
Precedent	<CITATION_353548> .
Precedent	[ at 748 at 37] a Bench of two judges had held that to prove a fact, inference must be drawn on the basis of the evidence and circumstances.
Precedent	They must be carefully distinguished form conjectures or speculation.
Precedent	The mind is prone to take pleasure adapt circumstances to one another and even in straining them a little to force them to form parts of one connected whole.
Precedent	There must be evidence direct or circumstantial to deduce necessary inferences in prof of the fact in issue.
Precedent	There can be no inferences unless there are objective facts, direct or circumstantial, from which the other fact which is sought to establish an be inferred.
Precedent	In som e case, the other facts can be inferred, as much as is practical, as if they had been actually observed.
Precedent	In other cases, the inferences d not go beyond reasonable probability.
Precedent	It there are no positive proved facts, oral, documentary or circumstantial from which the inferences can be made.
Precedent	the method of inference fails and what is left is mere speculation or conjecture.
Precedent	Therefore, for an inference of proof that a fact in dispute has been hold established, there must be some material facts or circumstances on record form which such an inference could be drawn."
RatioOfTheDecision	In the absence of any issue and facts and proof thereof, the inference that reservation in promotion deteriorates the efficiency or administration remains only a conjecture or an opinion based on no evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	As seen, it is constitutional mandate of the <ORG> under Article 335 that to render socio-economic justice and to prevent injustice to the Dalit and Tribes, facilities and opportunities of reservation in promotion should be provided consistently wit h the efficiency of administration.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question then is: what is the meaning of the phrase "efficiency of administration"?
RatioOfTheDecision	In D.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	case, it was observed in para 275 that "the term efficiency is an elusive and relative one to the adept capable to be applied in diverse circumstances.
RatioOfTheDecision	If a superior officer develops liking towards sycophant, though corrupt, he would tolerate him and find him to be efficient and pay encomiums and corruption in such cases stand no impediment.
RatioOfTheDecision	When he finds a sincere, devoted and honest officer to be inconvenient, it is easy to cast him/her off by writing confidential reports with delightfully vague language imputing to be 'not up to mar', 'wanting public relations' etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	At times they may be termed to be "security risk" (to their activities).
Precedent	Thus they spoil the career of the honest, sincere an devoted officers.
Precedent	Instances either way are galore in this regard.
Precedent	Therefore, one would be circumspect, pragmatic and realistic to these actualities of life while angulating constitutional  validity of wide, arbitrary, uncanalised and unbridled discretionary power of dismissal."
Precedent	<NAME> in his "merit' May Foot" (A reply to Anti-Reservation Racists), 1996 published by <ORG>, Bangalore, has stated that nowhere in the world 'merit and efficiency' are given so much importance as in India which is now pushed to the 120th position - virtually the last among different countries in the world.
Precedent	Upper caste rulers of India keep the country's vast original inhabitants- the Untouchables, Tribals, Backward castes and 'religious minorities" - permanently as salves with the help of this 'merit' mantra.
Precedent	By 'merit and efficiency', they mean the birth.
Precedent	Merit goes with the Highborn - the blue blood.
Precedent	This is pure and simple racism.
Precedent	That Birth and skin-color have nothing to do with 'merit and efficiency' (brain) is a scientifically proved fact".
Precedent	"But the ruling class nowhere in the world is concerned with science because science stands for progress.
Precedent	And those interested in progress will have  to be human.
Precedent	That is not so in India.
Precedent	If on has to see man's inhumanity to man in its most naked from he must come to India, the original home of racism and inequality.
Precedent	So the 'meri theory' beautifully suits its ruling class or caste".
Precedent	At page 10, he states that <ORG> have identified tow forces which are perpetually and constantly at work to influence the character, growth and development of the features of every living being in the universe including animals and plants: (1) heredity and (2) environment.
Precedent	Each species products only its own species.
Precedent	Biology is funded on the cell theory.
Precedent	Cell live and die.
Precedent	At page 11, he states that 'Merit and efficiency' are not inherited.
Precedent	They are an acquired quality that has not reached the germ plasma.
Precedent	So, to say that a <NAME>'s son alone is a Brahmin and hence has the 'merit' to become a temple priest (archaka) has no scientific basis.
Precedent	Some other influence acts in combination with heredity and that is environment.
Precedent	With right environment - food, education, free atmosph ere-Untouchables can prove better than Brahmins".
Precedent	At page 12, he states that genetic factors only provide the potential for human development whereas it is the environmental factors that translate this inherent potential into the full flowering of the personality.
Precedent	Experiments though selective breeding and studies on identical twins have established to a large extent the influence of genetics on behaviours.
Precedent	But what ultimately determines the personality is the inter-actional influences of heredity and environments.
Precedent	At page 15, he states that heredity is fixed by parentage but it is not an ideal environment.
Precedent	Opportunity is necessary on merit and efficiency.
Precedent	A genius is only 10% inspiration and 90% perspiration.
Precedent	There is nothing like a born genius.
Precedent	<NAME>, Indian prodigy on mathematics was given opportunity by the British to prove his genius and was provided with the right environment.
Precedent	though he was born genius without opportunities, he could not have got recognition.
Precedent	<NAME> states that "all ruling classes  built" a theory by suited to their needs and try to give a 'scientific' backing to it.
Precedent	Merit and efficiency is a pure Aryan invention, aimed at maintaining their monopoly".
Precedent	He states that "human rights are due to blending of the forces of heredity and the more important environment.
Precedent	The White meritocrats made us believe that the 'Block Negro' is a backward race."
Precedent	Justice <NAME>, in <CITATION_1759197> [1985 (Supp.)
Precedent	SCC 714 at 738- 740] had stated thus :  "Efficiency is very much on the lips of the privileged whenever reservation is mentioned.
Precedent	Efficiency, it seems, will be impaired if the total reservation exceed 50%; efficiency, it seems, will suffer if the 'carry forward' rule is adopted; efficiency, it seems, will be injured if the rule of reservation is extended to promotional posts, From the protests against reservation exceeding 50% or extending to promotional posts and against the carry forward rule, one would think that the civil service is a Heavenly Paradise into which only the archangel s, the chosen the of the elite, the very best may enter and may be allowed to go higher up the ladder.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the truth is otherwise.
RatioOfTheDecision	The truth is that the civil services is no paradise and the upper echelons belonging to the chosen classes are not necessarily models of efficiency.
RatioOfTheDecision	The underlaying assumption that those belonging to the upper-castes and classes, who are appointed to the non-reserved posts will, because of their presumed merit, 'naturally' perform better than those who have been appointed to the reserved posts and that the clear stream of efficiency will be polluted by the infiltration of the latter into the sacred precincts is a vicious assumption, typical of the superior approach of the elitists classes.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is neither statistical basis nor expert evidence to support these assumptions that efficiency will necessarily be impaired if reservation exceeds 50%, if reservation is carried forward or if reservation is extended to promotional posts.
RatioOfTheDecision	Arguments are advanced are opinion are expressed ent irely on an ad hoc presumptive basis.
RatioOfTheDecision	The age long contempt with which the 'superior' or ' forward' castes have treated the 'inferior' or 'backward' castes is now transforming and crystallising itself into an unfair prejudice, conscious and subconscious, ever since the 'inferior' castes and classes started claiming their legitimate share of the cake, which naturally means, for the 'superior' castes, parting with a bit of it.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although in actual practice their virtual monopoly on elite occupations and post is hardly threatened.
RatioOfTheDecision	the forward casts are nevertheless increasingly afraid that they might loses this monopoly in the higher ranks of government service and the profession.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is so difficult for the 'superior' castes to understand and rise above their prejudice and its is so difficult for the inferior castes and classes to overcome the bitter prejudice and opposition which they are forced to face at every stage, always one hears the word 'efficiency' as if it is sacrosanct and the sanctorum has to be fierc ely guarded.
RatioOfTheDecision	'Efficiency' is not a Mantra which is whispered by the Guru in the Sishya's year.
RatioOfTheDecision	The mere securing of high marks at an examination may not necessarily mark out a good administrator.
RatioOfTheDecision	An efficient administrator, one takes it, must be one who possesses amount other qualities the capacity to understand with sympathy and, therefore, to tackle bravely the problems of a large segment of population constituting the weaker sections of the people.
RatioOfTheDecision	And, who better than the ones belonging to those very sections?
Precedent	Why not ask ourselves why 35 years after independence, the position of the Scheduled Castes, etc.
Precedent	has not greatly improved?
Precedent	Is it not a legitimate question to ask whether things might have been different, had the District Administrators and the <ORG> and Central Bureaucrats been drawn in larger numbers from these classes?
Precedent	Courts are not equipped to answer these questions, but the courts may not interfere with the honest endeavours of the Government to find answers and solutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	We do not mean to sa y that efficiency in the civil service is unnecessary or that it is a myth.
RatioOfTheDecision	All that we mean to say is that one need not make a fastidious fetish of it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be that for certain posts, only the best may be appointed and for certain courses of study only the best may be admitted.
RatioOfTheDecision	If so, rules may provide for reservation for appointment to such posts and for admission to such courses.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rules may provide for no appropriate method of selection.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be that certain posts require a very high decree of industry and intelligence.
RatioOfTheDecision	If so, The rules may prescribe a high minimum qualifying standard and an appropriate method of selection.
RatioOfTheDecision	Different minimum standards and different modes of selection may be prescribed for different posts and for admission to different posts and for admission to different courses of study and having regard to the requirements of the posts and the courses of study.
RatioOfTheDecision	No one will suggest that the degree of efficiency required of a general medical practitioner.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, no one will sugg est that the decree of industry and intelligence expected of a candidate seeking admission to an ordinary arts degree course.
RatioOfTheDecision	We do not, therefore, means to say that efficiency is to be altogether discounted.
RatioOfTheDecision	All that we mean to say is that it cannot be permitted to be used as a camouflage to let the upper classes in its name and to monopolise the services, particularly the higher posts and the professional institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are afraid we have to rid our minds of many cobwebs before we arrive at the core of the problem.
RatioOfTheDecision	The quest for our illusions, though not our faith.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is the dignity of man to pursue the quest for equality.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be advantageous to quote at this juncture <NAME> in his 'classic work Equality' where he says.
RatioOfTheDecision	The truth is that it is absurd and degrading for men to make much of their the members of a social groups where each would consider the other as his equal, not higher of lower, A society, which does not treat each of its members as equals, forfeits its right of being called a dem ocracy.
RatioOfTheDecision	All are equal partners in the freedom.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every one of our ninety four hundred million people must have equal right to opportunities and blessings that freedom of India has to offer.
RatioOfTheDecision	To bring freedom in a comprehensive sense to the common man, material resources and opportunity for appointment be made available to secure socio-economic empowerment which would ensure justice and fullness of list of workman, i.e., every and and woman."
RatioOfTheDecision	In para 43, it was held That "(I)n a developing society like ours, steeped with unbridgeable and ever-widening gaps of inequality in status and of opportunity, law is a catalyst, rubicon to the poor etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	To reach the ladder of social justice.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is due cannot be ascertained by an absolute standard which keeps changing, depending upon the time, place and circumstance.
RatioOfTheDecision	The constitutional concern of social justice as an elastic continuous process is to accord justice to all sections of the society by providing facilities due to which the poor, the workmen etc.
Precedent	are languishing  ar to secure dignity of their person.
Precedent	The Constitution, therefore, mandates the <ORG> to accord justice to all members of the society in all facets of human activity.
Precedent	The concept of social justice embeds equality to flavour and enliven the practical content of life.
Precedent	Social justice and equality are complementary to each other so that both should maintain their vitality.
Precedent	Rule of law, therefore, is a potent instrument of social justice to being about equality in results."
Precedent	Efficiency is service attracts the well-known parabole the insanity cannot be cured until married and marriage cannot be celebrated till insanity is cured.
Precedent	Unless one is given opportunity and facility by promotion to hold and office on a post with responsibilities, there would be no opportunity to prove efficiency in the performance or discharge of the duties.
Precedent	With efficiency one cannot be promoted.
Precedent	How to synthesise both and give effect to the Constitutional animation to effectuate the principle or adequacy of representation in all posts or  classes of posts in all cadres, service or grad is the nagging question.
Precedent	From that perspective, one is required to examine whether reservation in promotion is constitutionally valid.
Precedent	It seen that the rules provide promotion from Assistant Engineer to Executive Engineer on the principle of "seniority subject to rejection of unfit" ad from <ORG> onward, 'merit' is the consideration.
Precedent	In other words, the promotion is based on the aforesaid principles.
Precedent	Even employees from Dalits or Tribes get promoted only on satisfying the above test.
Precedent	Appointment by promotion is a facet of recruitment to a service or cadre/grade/classes of posts.
Precedent	In fairness on the part of the appellants/Petitioners and their learned counsel, none impugned not alleged that the private respondents are not meritorious of inefficient.
Precedent	No such evidence is placed on record.
Precedent	The fundamental requisites to all employees are honesty, integrity and character, apart from hard work, dedication and willingness to apply assiduously to the r esponsibilities attached to the office or post and also inclination to achieve improved excellence.
Precedent	What Dalits and Tribe employees need is an opportunity and fair chance of promotion to higher posts and offices earmarked for them in the roster where they are not adequately represented.
Precedent	In clash of competing claims between general category employees on the one hand and Dalits and Tribes on the other, what the authorities need to take into consideration is the aforesaid factors and their service record with an objective and dispassionate assessment.
Precedent	When the authorities have a power coupled with constitutional duty, the doctrine of full faith and credit under Article 261 gets due acceptance when done truly and sincerely with an honest, objective and dispassionate assessment by the appropriate authority.
Precedent	Their claims need to be considered in that perspective; they should be given promotion, if found eligible, to the posts or classes of posts in the higher cadre, grade, class or category etc.
Precedent	The selecting offic er/Officers need to eschew narrow.
Precedent	sectarian, caste, religion or regional consideration or prejudices which were deleterious to fraternity, unity and integrity and integration of the nation as unified Bharat.
Precedent	What needs to be achieved by the Dalits and Tribal officers so promoted is that they could, on par with others assiduously devote themselves with character, integrity and honesty in the discharge of the duties of the posts with added willingness and dedication to improve excellence.
Precedent	Thereby the efficiency of administration would automatically get improved and the nation constantly rises to higher levels of achievement.
Precedent	Therefore, it cannot be held that reservation in promotion is bad in law or unconstitutional.
Precedent	As stated earlier, Article 16 (4A) has come into force w.e.f.
Precedent	17th June, 1995.
Precedent	The appellants/petitioners have sought amendment of the pleadings challenging the vires of Article 16(4A) of the Constitution and in fairness on the part of the learned counsel, they did not press for consideration the reof obviously for the reason that it objects are mentioned in the statement of Objects and Reasons as under:  "The Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes have been enjoying the facility of reservation in promotion since 1955.
Precedent	<ORG> in its judgment dated 16th November, 1992 in the case of India & Others, however, observed that reservation of appointments or posts under article 16 (4) of the Constitution is confined to initial appointment and cannot extent to reservation in the matter of promotion.
RatioOfTheDecision	This ruling of <ORG> will adversely affect the interests of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since the representation of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in services in the States have not reached the required level, it is necessary to continue the existing dispensation of providing reservation in promotion in the case of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the commitment of the <ORG> to protect the interests of the Scheduled Castes and  the Scheduled Tribes, the Government have decided to continue the existing policy of reservation is promotion for the Scheduled castes and the Scheduled Tribes.
Precedent	To carry out this, it is necessary to amend article 16 of the of the Constitution by inserting a new clause (4A) in the said article to provide for reservation in promotion for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled tribes."
Precedent	Lord <NAME> in <ORG> vs. <ORG> [(1913) Ac 107 at 118] has laid that a judicial tribunal has nothing to do with the policy of any Act which it may be called upon to interpret.
RatioOfTheDecision	That may be a matter for private judgment .
RatioOfTheDecision	The duty of the <ORG>, and its only duty, is to expound the language of the Act in accordance with the settled rules of construction.
Precedent	The above principle was followed by this <ORG> in the <CITATION_608874> .
Precedent	[(1955) 2 SCR 603].
Precedent	This <ORG> in <ORG> & <ORG> [(1990) 1 SCR 909 at 936 and 942] through a Constitution Bench, had held t hat legislative policy is beyond the pale of assailment on the anvil of violation of the fundamental rights.
Precedent	In S. Azeez Bash & Ar.
Precedent	V/s.
Precedent	<ORG> [(1968) 1 SCR 833 at 845] <ORG> had held that it is not the function of the <ORG> to consider the policy underlying the amendment made to the Act nor the <ORG> proposed to go into the merits of the amendment made by that Act (the Constitutionality of the underlying policy of the Aligarh Muslim University (Amendment) Act of 1965 was questioned put the <ORG> did not go into the underlying policy except the constitutionality of the Act itself which was upheld by this <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though the doctrine of original intent was given effect to in <NAME>'s case, this <ORG> had not accepted the same in <NAME> case and the later was followed in <NAME> V/s.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> [AIR 1978 SC 597] etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, thought the doctrine of original intent of reservation in promotion does not expressly find place in the speech of Dr. <NAME>, as supporte d in <NAME>'s case it found place in statutory policy engrafted in the rules issued under proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, which is legislative in character adopted and explained in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Constitution (77th Amendment) Act , 1995, which was declared as constitutional in <NAME>'s case.
RatioOfTheDecision	After <NAME>'s case, the parliament has given effect to the legislative policy of reservation in promotion as constitutional scheme.
Precedent	This <ORG> in Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, <NAME> & Anr.
Precedent	V/s.
Precedent	<NAME> & Ors.
Precedent	[(1996])7 SCC 512] through a three judge Bench, has held that he intention behind introduction of Article 16(4A) was to remove the defect as pointed out by this <ORG> in <NAME>'s case.
Precedent	By legislative judgment, the <ORG> upheld the ratio in <NAME>'s case.
Precedent	<NAME>'s case and <ORG>) V/s.
Precedent	<ORG>.
Precedent	[] upholding the rule of reservation in promotion .
Precedent	The interpretation put up therein was giv en acceptance by legislature amendment.
Precedent	It was, therefore, held that Article 16(4A) would establish that the principle of rule of reservation is applicable not only to initial recruitment but also in promotions where the <ORG> is of the opinion that the Dalits and Tribes are not adequately represented in promotional posts in a class or classes of services under the <ORG>.
Precedent	<CITATION_321936> ] 1997 (1) SC 384] another Bench of three Judges has held that "the question of retrospectivity of the policy does not arise; what is being done is to give effect to the constitutional policy of providing adequate representation to the members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in all classes of service or posts where they are not adequately represented.
Precedent	Therefore, the question of arbitrariness does not arise since it is part of the scheme of the Constitution.
Precedent	Unless adequate representation is given to the employees belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in promotions also, the adequacy of representation i n all classes and grades of service, where there is no element of direct recruitment, cannot be achieved.
Precedent	Obviously, therefore, Article 16 (4-A) was brought in the Constitution by Constitution (77th Amendment) Act , after the majority judgment of this Court by a Bench of nine Judges in <ORG> v/s.
Precedent	<ORG> & Ors.
Precedent	[(1992) Supp.
Precedent	3 SCC 210].
Precedent	So, the policy of reservation is part of socio- economic justice enshrined in the Preamble of the Constitution, the fundamental rights under Articles 14, 15 (1), 15 (4), 16 (1), 16 (4), 16 (4A), 46 and 335 and the other related Articles, to give effect to the above constitutional objectives.
Precedent	In <ORG> & Anr.
Precedent	V/s.
Precedent	Madhav s/o <NAME> & Anr.
Precedent	[J] 1996 (9) SC 320], a there-Judge Bench, to which two of us, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ.
Precedent	were members, also considered the same question and held in paragraph 6 that "Government evolved reservation in posts or offices under the <ORG> as one of the modes to give effect to socio-economic justic e to Dalits and Tribes.
Precedent	Appointment to an office or post into a service under the <ORG> is one of the means to render socio-economic Justice.
Precedent	Constitution (77th Amendment) Act , 1995 has resuscitated the above objective to enable the Dalits and Tribes-employees to improve excellence in higher echelons of service and a source of equality of opportunity, social and economic status guaranteed by the Preamble to the Constitution, As a consequence, the <ORG> has removed the lacuna pointed out by this <ORG> in <NAME>'s case.
Precedent	Thus, it would be seen that the legal position held by this <ORG> in <NAME>'s case and followed in other cases has been restored and reservation of appointment by promotion would be available to the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes under 50% quota as is maintained by this <ORG> in <NAME> case."
RatioOfTheDecision	It would thus be clear that right to promotion is a statutory right.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not a fundamental right.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right to promotion to a post or a class of posts depends up on the operation of the conditions of service.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 16 (4A) read with Articles 16 (1) and 14 guarantees a right to promotion to Dalits and Tribes as fundamental right where they not have adequate representation consistently with the efficiency in administration.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG>'s case, has prospectively overruled the ratio in <NAME>'s case, i.e., directed the decision to be operative after 5 years from the date of the judgment; however, before expiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	thereof, Article 16 (4A) has come into force from June 17, 1995.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the right to promotion continues as a constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right.
Precedent	In adjusting the competing rights of the Dalits and Tribes on the one hand and the employees belonging to the general category on the other, the balance is required to be struck by applying the egalitarian protective discrimination in favour of the Dalits and Tribes to give effect to the Constitutional goals.
Precedent	policy and objectives referred to hereinbefore.
Precedent	In <NAME> & <NAME> State of Punj ab & Ors.
Precedent	[(1995) 2 SCC 745], <ORG> was called upon to consider whether the reservation in promotion as per the roster was correct in law and, therefore, constitutional and whether the employees belonging to Scheduled Castes have right to be considered for promotion in their own merits, if so, how they are required to be adjusted in the roster prescribed by the <ORG>.
Precedent	<ORG> has pointed out that when percentage of reservation is fixed in respect of a particular cadre and the roster indicates the reserved points, it has to be taken that the posts shown at the reserved points are to be filled from amongst the members of the reserved categories.
RatioOfTheDecision	The candidates belonging to the general category are not entitled to be considered for the reserved posts.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, the reserved category candidates can compete for the non-reserved posts.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the event of their appointment to the said posts, In the event of their appointment to the said posts, their number cannot be added a nd taken into consideration for working out the percentage of reservation.
RatioOfTheDecision	When <ORG> after doing the necessary exercise makes reservation and provides the extent of percentage of posts to be reserved for the said backward class, then the percentage has to be followed strictly.
RatioOfTheDecision	The prescribed percentage cannot be varied or changed simply because some of the members of the backward class have already been appointed or promoted against the general seats.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact that considerable number of members of the backward classes have been appointed/ promoted against the general seats in the <ORG> may be a relevant factor for <ORG> to review the question of continuing reservation for the said class but so long as the instructions/rules providing certain percentage of reservations for the backward classes are operative, the same have to be followed.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was further held that the reserved vacancies like a running account.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the reserved quota is full in the cadre then application of rule o f reservation would be stopped until vacancies as per the roster arise and operate.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was also held following <ORG>'s case that the judgment therein could be operative prospectively from that date, viz., February 10, 1995 and all the promotions which became settled rights due to reservation in promotion could not be unsettled.
RatioOfTheDecision	As seen earlier, "right to equality", "equality or status and opportunity"; duty to "improve excellence"; "opportunities and facilities to remove inequality in status" and "social justice", all should be given their due and full play under rule of law to bring about equality in results to establish an egalitarian social order.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would, therefore, be clear that reservation in promotion is constitutionally valid; the posts earmarked for Dalits and Tribes shall be filled up and adjusted with them.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Dalits and Tribes selected in open competition for posts in general quota should be considered appointees to the general posts in the roster as general candidates.
RatioOfTheDecision	The promotions given in  excess of the quota prior to the judgment in <NAME>'s case should not be disturbed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The further question is; whether the judgment in <NAME>'s case in paragraph 860 (8) by <NAME>, J. prospectively overruling the ratio in <NAME>'s case is a majority judgment?
RatioOfTheDecision	In this connection, we may, at the outset, refer to Article 145 (5) of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It postulates that "(N)o judgment and no such opinion shall be delivered by <ORG>, save with the concurrence of a majority of the Judges present at the hearing of the case, but nothing in this clause shall be deemed to prevent a judge who does not concur from delivering a dissenting judgment or opinion".
RatioOfTheDecision	It would, therefore, be manifest that unless majority Judges comprised in the <ORG> concur on the opinion or the decision, it would not be a judgment and no such opinion shall be delivered by <ORG>, In <NAME>'s case, on the question of reservation in promotion, eight of the nine Judges participated in the opinion.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of them, <NAME> eddy, <NAME> spoke for himself, <NAME>, C.<NAME>I.
RatioOfTheDecision	and <NAME>, <NAME> as he then was.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> and <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	J<NAME> also greed with them.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is a considerable debate on Micro Lexicon Surgery conducted by the learned counsel for the appellants/petitioners drawing a distinction between conclusions and directions contained in paragraph 860 (8) and the language used in the concurrent opinions of <NAME> and <NAME>, J<NAME> In support thereof, they have placed strong reliance on the wording used by <NAME>, <NAME> in paragraphs 552 and 555 on the conclusion and directions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Equally, there was absence of concurrence by other learned Judges.
RatioOfTheDecision	They have also drawn our attention to the dictionary meaning of those words.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having given due consideration, we are of the view that the Micro Lexicon Surgery of the distinction between conclusions and directions leads us nowhere to reach satisfactory solution.
RatioOfTheDecision	One needs to adopt pragmatic approach to understand the conclusions reached and the directions given as part of the judgment in that beha lf.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if rule of strict interpretation is to be applied, as is sought by the learned counsel, <NAME>, J. in paragraph 555 has indicated his concurrence with the conclusions of <NAME>, J. in paragraph 860 (8) given by <NAME>, J. is majority judgment and it gets reinforced from the approval thereof, as followed by <ORG>, in <NAME> case.
RulingByLowerCourt	The presiding Judge therein, viz., <NAME>, who was one of the nine Judges in <NAME>'s case, participated in the majority opinion on the issue of reservation in promotion.
RulingByLowerCourt	However, no opinion was expressed on the conclusions and directions of <NAME>, J. in para 860, <ORG> having upheld the rule of reservation in promotion, proceeded to apply the law and worked out rights of the Dalits in promotions in <NAME> case.
RulingByLowerCourt	The same do support our conclusion that <ORG> equally understood that the directions contained in paragraph 860(8) constituted majority judgment.
RulingByLowerCourt	Otherwise, the Constit ution <ORG> in <NAME> case would not have proceeded to consider the right to promotion of the Dalits and question of giving effect to the roster system and the question of percentage of reservation provided in promotions would not have been give effect.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> in that case would have declared that in the light of the majority judgment the reservation in promotions were void ab initio under Article 13 (2) and that, therefore, the question of application of the roster would not have arisen.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is true that there is no positive indication or a finding to that effect in <NAME>'s case but the fact that the presiding Judge therein was one of the members of the nine-judge <ORG> in <NAME>'s case, and that the Constitution <ORG> considered and upheld the right to reservation in promotion and upheld the right to reservation in promotion to the Dalits and Backward Classes and applied the roster points to such promotions.
RatioOfTheDecision	itself goes to point out and reassure us that prospective overruling of  <NAME>'s case by <NAME>, J. is a majority opinion.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that view of the matter, <ORG> fails.
RatioOfTheDecision	The next questions are: whether the prospective over- ruling of <NAME>'s case, to be operative after five years from the date of <NAME>'s case, amounts to judicial legislation?
RatioOfTheDecision	Is it void ab initio under Article 13(2) of the Constitution?
RatioOfTheDecision	whether it is violative of the fundamental rights of the appellant-petitioners and whether the exercise of the power by this <ORG> under Article 32(4) and 142 of the Constitution is inconsistent with and derogatory to the fundamental rights of the appellants-petitioners and, if so, what would be the consequence?
RatioOfTheDecision	It is settled constitutional principle that to make the right to equality to the disadvantaged Dalits and Tribes meaningful, practical contents of results would be secured only when principles of distributive justice and protective discrimination are applied, as a facet of right to equality enshrined under Article 14 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Oth erwise, right to equality will be a teasing illusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	Right to promotion is a method of recruitment from one cadre to another higher cadre or class or category or grade of posts or classes of posts or offices, as the case may be.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reservation in promotion has been evolved as a facet of equality where the appropriate Government is of the opinion that the Dalits and Tribes are not adequately represented in the class or classes of posts in diverse cadres, grade, category of posts or classes of posts.
RatioOfTheDecision	The discrimination, therefore, by operation of protective discrimination and distributive justice is inherent in the principle of reservation and equality too by way of promotion but the same was evolved as a part of social and economic justice assured in the Preamble and Articles 38, 46 14, 16(1), 16(4) and 16(4A) of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right to equality, dignity of person and equality of status and of opportunity are fundamental rights to bring the Dalits and the Tribes in the Mainstream of the national life.
RatioOfTheDecision	It  would, therefore, be an imperative to evolve such principle to adjust the competing rights, balancing the claims, rights and interest of the deprived and disadvantaged Dalits and Tribes on one hand and the general section of the society on the other.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Constitution, unlike other Acts, is intended to provide an enduring paramount law and a basic design of the structure and power of the <ORG> and rights and duties of the citizens to serve the society through a long lapse of ages.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not only designed to meet the needs of the day when it is enacted but also the needs of the day when it is enacted but also the needs of the altering conditions of the future.
RatioOfTheDecision	It contains a framework of mechanism for resolution of constitutional disputes.
RatioOfTheDecision	It also embeds its ideals of establishing an egalitarian social order to accord socio-economic and political justice to all sections of the society assuring dignity of person and to integrate a united social order assuring every citizen fundamental rights assured in part III  and the directives in part IV of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the interpretation of the Constitution, words of width are both a framework of concepts and means to achieve the goals in the preamble.
RatioOfTheDecision	Concepts may keep changing to expand and elongate the rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	Constitutional issues are not solved by mere appeal to the meaning of the words without an acceptance of the line of their growth.
RatioOfTheDecision	The intention of the Constitution is, rather, to outline principles than to engrave details.
Precedent	<CITATION_514077> [(1995) Supp.
Precedent	4 SCC 469 at 485-86] a two-Judge Bench of this Court, to which one of us, <NAME> was a member, while interpreting Articles 17 and 15 (2) and the Civil Rights Protection Act , held that "(J)udiciary acts as a bastion of the freedom and of the rights of the people.
Precedent	<NAME>, the architect of Modern India as early as in 1944 stated that the spirit of the age is in favour of equality though the practice denies it almost everywhere, yet the spirit of the age triumphs.
Precedent	The judge must be atune with t he spirit of his/her times.
Precedent	Power of judicial review, a constituent power has, therefore, been conferred upon the judiciary which constitutes one of the most important and potent weapons to protect the citizens against violation of social, legal or constitutional rights.
Precedent	The judges are participants in the living stream of national life, steering the law between the dangers of rigidity on the one hand and formlessness on the other hand in the seemless web of life.
Precedent	The great tides and currents which engulf the rest of the men do not turn aside in their course and pass the judges idly by.
Precedent	Law should subserve social purpose.
Precedent	Judge must be a jurist endowed with the legislator's wisdom, historian's search for truth, prophet's vision, capacity to respond to the needs of the present, resilience to cope with the demands of the future and to decide objectively disengaging himself/herself from every personal influence or predilections.
Precedent	Therefore, the judges should adopt purposive interpretation of the dynamic concepts o f the Constitution and the Act with its interpretative armoury to articulate the felt necessities of the time.
Precedent	The judge must also bear in mind that social legislation is not a document for fastidious dialects but a means of ordering the life of the people.
Precedent	To construe law one must enter into its spirit.
Precedent	its setting and history.
Precedent	Law should be capable of expanding freedoms of the people and the legal order can, weighed with utmost equal care, be made to provide the underpinning of the highly inequitable social order.
Precedent	The power of judicial review must, therefore, be exercised with insight into social values to supplement the changing social needs.
Precedent	The existing social inequalities or imbalances are to be removed and social order readjusted through rule of law, lest the force of violent cult gain ugly triumph.
Precedent	Judges are summoned to the duty of shaping the progress of the law to consolidate society and grant access to the Dalits and Tribes to public means or places dedicated to public use or places of amenities o pen to public etc.
Precedent	The law which is the resultant product is not found but made.
Precedent	Public policy of law, as determined by new conditions, would enable the courts to recast the changing conceptions of social values of yesteryears yielding place to the changed conditions and environment to the common good.
Precedent	The courts are to search for light from among the social elements of every kind that are the living forces behind the factors they deal with.
Precedent	By judicial review, the glorious contents and the trite realisation in the constitutional words of width must be made vocal and audible giving them continuity of life, expression and force when they might otherwise be forgotten or ignored in the heat of the moment or under sway of passions or emotions remain aroused, that the rational faculties get befogged and the people are addicted to take immediate for eternal, the transitory for the permanent and the ephemeral for the timeless, it is in such transitory for the permanent and the ephemeral for the timeless.
Precedent	It is in su ch surging situation the presence and consciousness and the restraining external force by judicial review ensures stability and progress of the society.
Precedent	Judiciary does not forsake the ideals enshrined in the Constitution, but makes them meaningful and makes the pople realise and enjoy the rights.
Precedent	The Judges, therefore, should respond to the human situations to meet the felt necessities of the time and social needs; make meaningful the right to life and give effect to the Constitution and the will of the legislature.
Precedent	This <ORG> as the vehicle of transforming the nation's life should respond to the nation's needs, interpret the law with pragmatism to further public welfare to make the constitution broadly and liberally enabling the citizens to enjoy the rights.
Precedent	In <ORG> & Ors.
Precedent	V/s.
Precedent	The Union of India [(1962) 3 SCR 842 at 857] it was held by <ORG> thus;  "It must be borne in mind that the Constitution must be interpreted in a broad way and not in a narrow and pedantic sense .
RatioOfTheDecision	Certain rights have been inshrined in our Constitution as fundamental and, therefore, while considering the nature and content of those rights the <ORG> must not be took astute to interpret the language of the Constitution in so literal a sense as to whittle them down.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, the <ORG> must interpret the Constitution in a manner which would enable the citizen to enjoy the rights guaranteed by it in the fullest measure subject, of course, to permissible restrictions."
RatioOfTheDecision	Common sense has always served in the court's ceaseless striving as a voice of reason to maintain the blend of change and continuity of order which is sine qua non for stability in the process of change in a parliamentary democracy.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, it is but the duty of the <ORG> to supply vitality, blood and flesh, to balance the competing rights by interpreting the principles, to the language or the words contained in the living and organic Constitution, broadly and liberally.
RatioOfTheDecision	The judicial function of the <ORG>, thereby, is to build  up, by judicial statesmanship and judicial review, smooth social change under rule of law with a continuity of the past to meet the dominant needs and aspirations of the present.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG>, as sentinel on the qui vive, has been invested with more freedom, in the interpretation of the Constitution than in the interpretation of other laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG>, therefore, is not bound to accept an interpretation which retards the progress or impedes social integration; it adopts such interpretation which would bring about the ideals set down in the Preamble of the Constitution aided by Part III and IV - a truism meaningful and a living reality to all sections of the society as a whole by making available the rights to social justice and economic empowerment to the weaker sections, and by preventing injustice to them.
Precedent	Protective discrimination is an armour to realise distributive justice.
Precedent	Keeping the above perspective in the backdrop of our consideration, let us broach whether the rights of the employees belonging to the  general category are violative of Article 14; inconsistent with and derogatory to right to equality and are void ab initio.
Precedent	<CITATION_505842> ) by LRs.
Precedent	etc.
Precedent	[ at 766], <ORG> had held that like all principles evolved by man for the regulation of the social order, the doctrine of binding precedent is circumscribed in its government by perceptible limitations, limitations.
Precedent	arising by reference to the need for re-adjustment in a changing society, a re-adjustment of legal norms demanded by a changed social context.
Precedent	This need for adapting the law to new urges in society brings home that truth that the life of the law has not been logic, but it has been experienced.
Precedent	The law is forever adopting new principles from life at one end and "sloughing off" old ones at the other.
Precedent	The choice is between competing legal propositions rather than by the operation of logic upon existing legal propositions that the growth of law tends to be determined.
Precedent	Interpretation of the Constitution is a continuous process.
Precedent	Th e concepts engraved therein keep changing with the demands of changing needs and time.
Precedent	The doctrine of stare decisis is ordinarily a wise rule of action, because in most matters, it is more important that the applicable rule of law be settled right.
Precedent	The rule of stare decisis, though one tending to keep consistency and uniformity of decisions, is not an inflexible rule.
Precedent	Whether it shall be followed or departed from is a question entirely within the discretion of the <ORG> and it does not deter the court to depart from it.
Precedent	Stare decisis is not, like the rule of res judicata, a universal, inexorable command.
Precedent	whether it would be desirable to continue the decision in constitutional questions is one of the choice between competing rights.
Precedent	In <ORG> case, considering the question whether the decision of <ORG> referred in the <CITATION_424874> .
Precedent	[(1953) SCR 1069], a majority of seven Judges following the descending judgment of <NAME>, CJ in United States of America vs. <ORG> <ORG> [322 US 533], had held that the <ORG> has never committed itself to any rule or policy that it will not bow to the lessons of experience and the force of better reasoning by overruling a mistaken precedent.
Precedent	The doctrine of stare decisis should not be rigidly applied to the constitutional as well as to other laws.
Precedent	In the case of private import, the chief desideratum is that the law remained certain, and, therefore, where a rule has been judicially declared and private rights created thereunder, the courts will not, except in the clearest cases of error, depart from the doctrine of stare decisis.
Precedent	When, however, public interests are involved, and especially, when the question is one of constitutional construction, the matter is otherwise.
Precedent	Accordingly the <ORG> overruled the majority decision.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would, thus, be settled law that in the interpretation of the Constitution or the concepts embodied therein, the application of the doctrine of stare decisis is not an inexorable or rigid  rule.
RatioOfTheDecision	It requires modulation or adherence based upon the need of the constitutional command and social imperatives.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would, therefore, be entirely within the discretion of the <ORG> when it is called upon to consider its application to the given set of circumstances.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is settled principle right from <NAME> Nath ratio that prospective over-ruling is a part of the principles of constitutional canon of interpretation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though <NAME> Nath ratio of unamendability of fundamental rights under Article 368 of the Constitution was over-ruled in <NAME> case [1973 Supp.
RatioOfTheDecision	SCR 1] the doctrine of prospective over-ruling was upheld and followed in several decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG> negatived the contention in <NAME> Nath's case that prospective over-ruling amounts to judicial legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Explaining the Blackstonian theory of law, i.e., Judge discovers law and does not make law, and the efficacy of prospective over-ruling at page 808 placitum D to H, this <ORG> by a Bench of eleven Judges had held that the doctrin e of prospective over-ruling is a modern doctrine and is suitable for a fast moving society.
RatioOfTheDecision	It does not do away with the doctrine of stare decisis but confines it to past transactions.
RatioOfTheDecision	While in strict theory, it may be said that the doctrine involves the making of law, what a <ORG> really does is to declare the law but refuses to give retrospectivity to it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is really a pragmatic solution reconciling the two conflicting doctrines, namely, that a <ORG> finds law and that it does make the law.
RatioOfTheDecision	It finds the law but restricts its operation to the future.
RatioOfTheDecision	It enables the <ORG>s to bring about a smooth transition by correcting the errors without disturbing the impact of those errors on past transactions.
RatioOfTheDecision	By implication of this doctrine, the past may be preserved and the future protected.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Constitution does not expressly or by necessary implication speak against the doctrine of prospective over-ruling.
RatioOfTheDecision	Articles 32(4) and 142 are designed with words of width to enable this <ORG> to declare the law and to give su ch direction or pass such orders as are necessary to do complete justice.
RatioOfTheDecision	Declaration of law under Article 141 is wider than words found or made.
RatioOfTheDecision	The law declared by this <ORG> is the law of the land.
RatioOfTheDecision	So, there is no acceptable reason as to why the <ORG> in dealing with the law in supersession of the law declared by it earlier could not restrict the operation of law, as declared, to the future and save the transactions, whether statutory or otherwise, that were effected on the basis of the earlier law.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG> is, therefore, not impotent to adjust the competing rights of parties by prospective over- ruling of the previous decision in Rangachari ratio.
Precedent	The decision in <NAME>'s case postponing the operation for five years from the date of the judgment is an instance of, and an extension to the principle of prospective over-ruling following the principle evolved in <NAME> case.
Precedent	<CITATION_1246653> .
Precedent	[], <ORG> of this <ORG>, while over-ruling <ORG> V/s.
Precedent	<NAME> [] had held  that benefit of the decisions would be given only to the parties to the cases pending before the authorities from the date of the judgment but not to the actions already taken by the date of that judgment.
Precedent	In that behalf in separate but partly dissenting judgment to a limited extent, on the issue of the need to give benefit to the party that approaches the <ORG> in that case, one of us, <NAME>, had held that as a matter of constitutional law retrospective operation of an over-ruling decision is neither required nor prohibited by the Constitution; it is a matter of judicial attitude depending on the facts and circumstances in each case; the nature and purpose the particular over-ruling decision seeks to serve are required to be taken into consideration.
Precedent	The <ORG> would look into the justifiable reliance on the over-ruled case by the administration.
Precedent	All the factors, viz., ability to effectuate the new rule adopted in the over-ruling case, without doing injustice and whether the likelihood of its opera tion substantially burdens the administration or retards the purpose, are to be taken into account, while over-ruling the earlier decision or laying down a new principle.
Precedent	Equally, no distinction could be made between claims involving constitutional rights, statutory right or common law right.
Precedent	The <ORG> is required to adjust the competing rights taking into consideration the prior history of the rule in question, its purpose and effect and to find out whether retrospective operation will accelerate or retard its operation.
Precedent	Therefore, evolving of the appropriate rule to give effect to the decision of the <ORG> over-ruling its previous precedent, is one of judicial craftsmanship with pragmatism and judicial statesmanship as a useful outline to bring about smooth transition of the operation of law without unduly affecting the rights of the people who acted upon the law operated prior to the date of the judgment over-ruling the previous law.
Precedent	The question, therefore, is: whether such a decision is void when it off ends the fundamental rights under Article 13(2) of the Constitution?
Precedent	The doctrine of voidity was dealt with in the Administrative Law by <NAME> (Seventh Edition) at page 342, and it is stated that "the truth of the matter is that the <ORG> would invalidate an order only if the right remedy is sought by the right person in the right proceedings and circumstances".
Precedent	The terms "void ab initio" or "nullity" or "voidable" are descriptive of the status of the legislation or subordinate legislation alleged to be ultra vires for patent or for latent defects before its validity has been pronounced by a <ORG> of competent jurisdiction.
Precedent	It would, therefore, be of necessity to consider in each case, the effect of the declaration granted by the <ORG> before labelling it as void, nullity or voidable, as the case may be.
Precedent	It is seem that Article 13(2) envisages a situation where the <ORG> action, be it legislative or executive, violates the fundamental rights in Part III of the Constitution; such law is declared as void but wh en the previous over-ruled decision and the new rule laid down by the <ORG> as a stare decisis operates prospectively from a given date, namely, either the date of the judgment or extended date.
Precedent	Judgment or order is not a legislative Act which is void under Article 13(2) but judicial tool by which the effect of the judgment was given.
Precedent	Therefore, the judgment of this <ORG> in <NAME>'s case declaring that Rangachari ratio did not correctly interpret Articles 16(1) and 16(4) of the Constitution is a declaratory law under Article 141 of the Constitution.
Precedent	It is true that Article 13(1) deals with pre-constitutional law and if it is inconsistent with fundamental rights, it becomes void from January 26, 1950, the date on which the Constitution of India came into force and if a post-constitutional law governed by Article 13(2) violates fundamental rights, it becomes void from its inception.
Precedent	Either case deals with statute law and not the law declared by this <ORG> under Article 141 and directions/orders under Article 1 42.
Precedent	The question then is: whether such a declaration is inconsistent with the Constitution or in derogation of the fundamental rights?
Precedent	As held earlier, both the disadvantaged and advantaged sections of the society have equal competing fundamental rights in Part adapter of Fundamental Rights.
Precedent	The Court in mod had obviously recognised the need to exempting rights of both sections of citizens and therefore, it postponed the operation of that judgment for five years from that date giving an option to the <ORG> to have the law amended appropriately.
Precedent	<CITATION_185157692> .
Precedent	[], <ORG> was to consider the scope, ambit and limitation of the exercise of the power under Article 142.
Precedent	Therein, the contention raised was that the direction issued was contrary to the statutory provision violating Article 21 of the constitution and that, therefore, the power under Article 142 could not be exercised in that backdrop.
Precedent	This Court explaining the interplay of inference of Prohibition or limitation on the cons titutional power and as to when need to its exercise the same under Article 142 arises, had pointed out in para 83 thus:  "It is necessary to set at rest certain misconceptions in the arguments touching the scope of the powers of this <ORG> under Article 142(1) of the Constitution.
Precedent	These issues are matters of serious public importance.
Precedent	The proposition that a provision in any ordinary law irrespective of the importance of the public policy on which it is founded, operates to limit the powers of the apex <ORG> under Article 142(1) is unsound and erroneous.
Precedent	In both <NAME> as well as <NAME> cases the point was one of violation of constitutional provisions and constitutional rights.
Precedent	The observations as to the effect of inconsistency with statutory provisions were really unnecessary in those cases as the decisions in the ultimate analysis turned on the breach of constitutional rights.
Precedent	We agree with <NAME> that the power of the court under Article 142 insofar as quashing of criminal proceedings are concerned is  not exhausted by Section 320 or 321 or 482 Cr.PC or all of them put together.
Precedent	The power under Article 142 is at an entirely different level and of a different quality.
Precedent	Prohibitions or limitations or provisions contained in ordinary laws cannot, ipso facto, act as prohibitions or limitations on the constitutional powers under Article 142 Such prohibitions or limitations in the statutes might embody and reflect the scheme of a particular law, taking into account the nature and status of the authority or the court on which conferment of powers  - limited in some appropriate way not necessarily reflect or be based on any fundamental considerations of public policy.
Precedent	<NAME>, learned Attorney General, referring to <NAME> case, said that limitation on the powers under Article 142 arising from "inconsistency with express statutory provisions of substantive law" must really mean and be understood as some express prohibition contained in any substantive statutory law.
Precedent	He suggested that if the expression `prohibiti on' is read in place of `provision' that would perhaps convey the appropriate idea.
Precedent	But we think that such prohibition should also be shown to be based on some underlying fundamental and general issues of public policy and not merely incidental to a particular statutory scheme or pattern.
Precedent	It will again be wholly incorrect to say that powers under Article 142 are subject to such express statutory prohibitions.
Precedent	That would convey the idea that statutory provisions override a constitutional provision.
Precedent	Perhaps, the proper way of expressing the idea is that in exercising powers under Article 142 and in assessing the needs of "complete justice" of a cause or matter, <ORG> will take note of the express prohibitions in any substantive statutory provision based on some fundamental principles of public policy and regulate the exercise of its power and discretion accordingly.
Precedent	The proposition does not relate to the powers of the <ORG> under Article 142 , but only to what is or is not `complete justice' of a cause  or matter and in the ultimate analysis of the propriety of the exercise of the power.
Precedent	No question of lack of jurisdiction or of nullity can arise."
Precedent	In <ORG>, <ORG>, <CITATION_1496509> .
Precedent	[] and In Re: <NAME> [], this <ORG> considered its paramount power and duty to protect limbs of administration of justice from those whose actions created interference with or obstruction to the course of justice.
Precedent	It was held that the failure to exercise the power with such situations, when it is invested specifically for the purpose, is a failure to discharge the duty.
Precedent	The first case deals with a case when the judicial officer in Gujarat was assaulted by the police and in the latter when a practising advocate assaulted a Judge of the High <ORG>, this <ORG> took suo motu action and passed appropriate orders, in spite of absence of specific power to deal with or despite the disciplinary power available under the Advocates Act .
Precedent	<CITATION_1336921> .
Precedent	[], a Bench of two Judge s exercised the power under Articles 129 and 142 of the Constitution and not only punished the defrauding party but also directed restoration of the benefits illegally derived to the persons defrauded.
Precedent	The imposition of the punishment, it was held, does not denude the power of <ORG>; it could issue directions to remedy the wrong done by the contemner including directions to refund the amounts wrongfully derived by the contemner to the rightful persons.
Precedent	It would be seen that there is no limitation under Article 142(1) on the exercise of the power by this <ORG>.
Precedent	The necessity to exercise the power is to do "complete justice in the cause or matter".
Precedent	The inconsistency with status law made by <ORG> arises when this <ORG> exercises power under Article 142(2) for the matters enumerated therein.
Precedent	Inconsistency in express statutory provisions of substantive law would mean and be understood as some express prohibition contained in any substantive statutory prohibition contained in any substantive statutory law.
Precedent	Th e power under Article 142 is constituent power transcendental to statutory prohibition.
Precedent	Before exercise of the power under Article 142(2) and we find no limiting words to mould the relief or when this <ORG> takes appropriate decision to met out justice or to remove injustice.
Precedent	The phrase "complete justice" engrafted in Article 142(1) is the word of width couched with elasticity to meet myriad situations created by human ingenuity or cause or result of operation of statute law or law declared under Article 32 , 136 and 141 of the Constitution and cannot be cribbed or crabbed within any limitations or phraseology.
Precedent	Each case needs examination in the light of its backdrop and the indelible effect of the decision.
Precedent	In the ultimate analysis, it is for this <ORG> to exercise its power to do complete justice or prevent injustice arising from the exigencies of the cause or matter before it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question of lack of jurisdiction or nullity of the order of this <ORG> does not arise.
RatioOfTheDecision	As held earlier, the power under Article  142 is a constituent power within the jurisdiction of this <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	So, the question of a law being void ab initio or nullity or voidable does not arise.
RatioOfTheDecision	Admittedly, the Constitution has entrusted this salutary duty to this <ORG> with power to remove injustice of to do complete justice in any cause or matter before this <ORG>.
Precedent	The <NAME> ratio was in operation for well over three decades under which reservation in promotions were given to several persons in several services, grade or cadre of <ORG> or the respective State Governments.
Precedent	This <ORG>, with a view to see that there would not be any hiatus in the operation of that law and, as held earlier, to bring about smooth transition of the operation of law of reservation in promotions, by a judicial creativity extended the principle of prospective over-ruling applied in <NAME> case in the case of statutory law and of the judicial precedent in <NAME>'s case and further elongated the principle postponing the operation of the judgment in  <ORG>'s case for five years from the date of the judgment.
Precedent	This judicial creativity is not anathema to constitutional principle but an accepted doctrine, as an extended facet of stare decisis.
Precedent	It would not be labelled as proviso to Article 16(4) as contended for.
Precedent	<CITATION_359668> .
Precedent	[], while noticing that the Administrative Tribunal Act suffered from constitutional invalidity, instead of declaring the Act as invalid, declared that its invalidity would be removed by making necessary suggested amendments thereto so that the law will become consistent with the Constitution.
Precedent	In <ORG> case (supra), while holding that the orders issued by <ORG> were violative of Article 30(1) of the Constitution, this <ORG> declared that admission by the minority institutions in the ratio of 50:50 between minority students and the general students was constitutional which is another facet of judicial creativity.
Precedent	<CITATION_1494202> [], this <ORG>, instead of declaring that abolition of hereditary truste eship of the founder of the <ORG> to manage a <ORG> was unconstitutional, declared the law reading it down that the institutions would be managed by <ORG> hereditary trustees presided over by the hereditary trustees so as to be conducive to proper and efficient management of the endowment or institutions.
Precedent	At the same time, this <ORG> upheld the power to remove hereditary trustees who mismanaged the endowment or committee for acts of misfeasance or malfeasance, as valid.
Precedent	It is settled legal principle of reading down the provisions of a statute by so interpreting them as to make the Act consistent with the constitutional principles.
Precedent	Instances, therefore, are many under which this <ORG> has evolved the appropriate principle to sustain the legislative or executive actions consistent with the constitutional philosophy or principles.
Precedent	<CITATION_1718426> .
Precedent	[1963 Supp.
Precedent	(1) SCR 912], relied on by the petitioners.
Precedent	is of no assistance to the facts of this Case.
Precedent	Therein, the distinction b etween the post- constitutional and pre-constitutional law which violated the fundamental rights and the effect thereof under Article 13(1) and 13(2) was considered.
Precedent	The doctrine of eclipse was pressed into service and explaining the circumstances in which the voidity of the pre-constitutional law and the validity of the post-constitutional law was declared, this <ORG> held that the post-constitutional law violating the fundamental rights was still-born and that, therefore, was void from its inception, while the pre-constitutional law is effective from inception but its voidity supervened when the Constitution came into force.
Precedent	Therefore, it would be void only from January 26, 1950 and the previous operation of the law remained unaffected.
Precedent	The ratio therein, therefore, has no application to the facts in this case.
Precedent	Similarly, the ratio in <CITATION_986432> .
Precedent	[] is equally inapplicable to the facts of this case.
Precedent	Therein, it was declared that the justification of right of pre-emption to different classes enumerat ed in Section 15 of the Punjab Promotion Act was declared ultra vires and inconsistent with the modern concept of equality.
Precedent	Therefore, it was held that the law was not valid.
Precedent	Equally, the ratio in <NAME> case (supra), is equally inapplicable.
Precedent	Therein, it was held that a law violating the fundamental rights was void but it remained valid under the protective umbrella of Schedule IX of the Constitution and, therefore, though it was void, it cannot be declared to be void and remained to be valid law.
Precedent	But a post-constitutional Kesavananda Bharati law which did not receive the protective umbrella of Schedule IX is void from its inception.
RatioOfTheDecision	we are not concerned, as stated supra, with statute law in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under those circumstances, the ratio therein is inapplicable to the facts in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> case is inapplicable to the facts in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therein, though this <ORG> had directed under Article 142 trial of the appellant by a High <ORG> Judge, it was held that such direction was inconsistent with  fundamental rights of equality under Article 21 read with Article 14 with the trial of other similarly circumstanced offenders by a properly constituted <ORG> with a right of appeal while the order passed under Article 142 denied him of the equality of trial process.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG> accepted that contention and held that the direction issued on earlier occasion was invalid in law.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that context, the observations came to be made in para 50.
RatioOfTheDecision	The ratio therein is also inapplicable to the facts in this case.
Precedent	<CITATION_1496509> [ AT 452, para 37], it was held that the powers under Articles 32, 136, 141 and 142 are basic structures of the Constitution and cannot be curtailed by statute law.
Precedent	Equally, the same position was reiterated in para 51 therein.
Precedent	The ratio also is inapplicable to the facts in this case as we have already held that the direction in <NAME>'s case postponing the operation of the judgment of reservation in promotions for a period of five years is a part of the scheme of judicial review being an inno vative device to mete out justice to the Dalits and Tribes giving breathing time to the executive to bring about suitable legislative measures, if they so desired and if no action was taken by amending the law, on expiry of five years, the judgment in Mandal case would become operative.
Precedent	Thereafter reservation in promotion would be unconstitutional which invalidity was remedied.
Precedent	As held earlier, this being one of the tools of judicial craftsmanship adopted by exercising the power under Article 142 , which is available only to this <ORG>, the directions given are not violative of rights under Article 14 read with Article 16(1 ), not ultra vires the power nor void, nor incompatible to or inconsistent with the doctrine of equality enshrined under Article 14 read with Article 16(1) of the Constitution.
Precedent	On the other hand, the power was exercised by this <ORG> under Article 142 read with Articles 32 and the direction postponing the operation of the decision for a period of five years is a law of the land under Artic le 141.
Precedent	It is already seen that the rule of reservation in promotions was in vogue in the State of Uttar Pradesh right from 1973 and the promotions came to be made from 1981 onwards to the respondents 2 to 10.
Precedent	The U.P.
Precedent	Act saves the existing policy of reservation in promotions.
Precedent	The judgment in <NAME> case saves the promotions already made.
Precedent	In <NAME>'s case also <ORG> has upheld the validity of the promotions given in excess of the roster; otherwise also those promoted on their own merit were held to be validly promoted.
Precedent	Even excess promotions remained undisturbed and the law became operative only from the date of the judgment.
Precedent	This Court upheld the previous promotions, though in excess of the roster system, as constitutional and valid.
RulingByPresentCourt	Therefore, we hold that the promotions of the respondents are legal and valid and they do not become void or unconstitutional as contended.
RulingByPresentCourt	Both, the appeal and the writ petition are accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs.
