Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, C.J.
RulingByLowerCourt	1.
RulingByLowerCourt	In my judgment this suit ought to have been dismissed on the ground that the right claimed by the plaintiffs was not cognizable by <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	2.
RulingByLowerCourt	Assuming that the suit related to a matter of which <ORG> could take cognizance, I agree with the view taken by the learned Judge who tried the case.
RulingByLowerCourt	I think the plaintiffs failed to make out any case and that the suit was rightly dismissed.
RulingByLowerCourt	3.
Fact	I propose to deal with the case first, as the learned Judge dealt with it, that is, on the assumption that the suit was cognizable by <ORG>.
Fact	4.
Fact	The plaintiffs' case was that a certain temple, of which the defendant was Dharmakarta, had been built and a goddess consecrated for the special benefit of worshippers residing in certain streets in Black Town, Madras ; that those worshippers and their descendants had contributed towards the expenses of the festivals appertaining to the goddess and enjoyed the right of having the goddess carried in procession in front of their hous es in order that they might perform worship at the several stoppages ; that from time immemorial the customary route for the procession, except on certain special occasions, included a street known as Kristnaswami Covil Street, in which the plaintiffs resided; that the defendant, with a view to injure the plaintiffs and other residents in Kristnaswami Covil Street, proposed to vary the customary route by omitting therefrom the whole of the said street; and the plaintiffs claimed a declaration of their rights, an injunction that future processions should take the alleged customary route, and damages.
Argument	The defendant's case was that the temple was founded for the benefit of the Kamara or Panchala community of the Town of Madras ; that the right of management of the temple and its affairs is vested in the members of that community as recognised by a decree of this Court ; and that the temple was not built nor the goddess con- secrated for the benefit of worshippers residing in streets forming the alleged customary  route.
Argument	The defendant denied that the plaintiffs had acquired, or could acquire, any legal right by reason of any custom or practice to have the procession carried through any particular streets, and contended that the manner of conducting the processions was a matter involving religious ritual which depended on various considerations ; that the discretion of the Dharma-kartha and the sabha appointed to manage the affairs of the temple was not subject to any external influence or control; and that, in varying the route of the procession, the <NAME> had acted bona-fide and in the best interests of the temple.
Argument	5.
Argument	There is a distinction between the case of the 1st and 5th plaintiffs, who are members of the Kamara caste for whose benefit the defendant alleges, and the plaintiffs do not appear to deny, the temple was instituted, and that of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants, who were not members of this caste but merely residents in the street in question who had been in the habit of availing themselves of th e opportunity to worship when the procession passed down their streets.
Argument	As regards plaintiffs 2, 3 and 4, I am clearly of opinion that they have established no right.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are not members of the Kamara caste, they have no proprietary interest in the institution, they have no voice in the appointment of the <NAME>, and they have no control over him.
RatioOfTheDecision	I know no principle of law upon which it can be said by custom, prescription, or otherwise, plaintiffs 2, 3 and 4 have acquired any rights as against the defendant.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not a case in which a man claims a right by custom to do a certain act.
RatioOfTheDecision	"Plaintiffs 2 to 4 claim a right by custom not merely to worship the goddess but to compel the defendant to bring the goddess past their houses in order that they may worship.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards plaintiffs 2 to 4 the fact that they resided in the particular" street gave them the opportunity of participating in certain religious advantages which they would not otherwise have enjoyed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact they enjoyed these advantages for a c ertain period gives them no rights as against the defendant,  6.
RatioOfTheDecision	The case of plaintiffs 1 and 5, however, stands upon a different footing.
RatioOfTheDecision	There was no evidence before the Court below as to the route taken for the procession prior to 1874.
Precedent	From 1874 to 1878 there were no processions at all ; but from 1878 onwards it was agreed that the practice had been, except in the case of a death in the street and on certain specified occasions, for the procession to pass through Kristnaswami Covil Street.
Precedent	Plaintiffs 1 and 5 based their alleged rights entirely on mamool.
RatioOfTheDecision	The defendant contended that he had a discretion with regard to the route which the processions should take.
Precedent	In a case which came before this Court in 1881 (Subbaraya Gurukal v. Chellappa Mudali I.L.R.
Precedent	4 M. 315 in which the custom with reference to ceremonies and processions in connection with idols was involved, Sir <NAME>, C.J., and Sir <NAME>, J., observe: "We believe there is no general custom by which this question can be at once dec ided.
Precedent	It may be the Dharmakarthas have no power to change custom ; it may be that they, or a majority of them, have a discretion to do so either arbitrarily or in accordance with what they honestly believe to be the wishes of the worshippers."
Argument	7.
Argument	In his evidence the 1st plaintiff stated that the plaintiff belonged to the Kamara community and that only members of that community are entitled to interfere in its management; that there are 18 houses in the street, the other houses being inhabited by members of other castes.
Argument	The 1st plaintiff's evidence with reference to the custom upon which he relied was somewhat confused, but he appears to have stated that if the procession started it must pass through Kristnaswamy Covil Street, that the length of the route of the procession depended on the money available, but that the procession must pass through certain specified streets whether there was money or not, and that if money was not forthcoming, the temple must borrow for the purpose.
Argument	He stated that if a large m ajority of the worshippers wished the route of the procession to be changed, the defendant must act according to <NAME>, and that even if the houses on both sides of the street fell down and no one lived in it the procession would still have to go up that street.
Argument	Upon the 1st plaintiff's own statement of the custom upon which he relies it seems to me that the alleged custom is so unreasonable,--unreasonable, I mean, from the point of view of the community for whose benefit the institution was founded and the processions are conducted--that I should be prepared to hold that no such custom in fact exists.
Argument	There is, however, other evidence as to the nature of the alleged custom, A <NAME> of a neighbouring temple was called as a witness on behalf of the plaintiffs.
Argument	He stated that for the last 20 or 30 years, except when the processions were stopped on account of disputes, the procession had passed down the Krishnasami Covil Street.
Argument	He also stated according to the learned Judge's note of his evidence, that t he route of processions depends upon the wishes of the people living in the streets and the pleasure of the Dharmakartha, that processions generally keep the same route, and that it depends upon the wishes of the people through which the processions go.
Argument	The witness mentioned the names of two other temples and stated that the processions in connection with these temples did not pass through the same streets they used to pass through.
Argument	He also stated that the matter depended upon the wishes of the people--those living in the mamool streets and others.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	The testimony of this witness is quite inconsistent with the evidence given by the 1st plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	To my mind the 1st plaintiff's evidence is discredited by that given by his own witness--the neighbouring Dharmakartha.
RatioOfTheDecision	Without saying that the defendant's discretion in regard to the route of the procession is absolute (as the defendant puts his case in written statement), it seems to me that the custom as spoken to by the Dharmakartha witness is more reasonable a nd more probable.
RatioOfTheDecision	To say that a trustee in a case such as this has no discretion appears to me anomalous.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not necessary to attempt to define the limits of his discretion or the principles upon which he should seek to exercise it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is enough to say that, in my judgment, the plaintiffs have failed to establish a custom which absolutely precludes the defendant from the exercise of any discretion and that he failed to make out his case.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this view it is not necessary to consider the--to my mind--much more difficult question as to whether the right claimed by the plaintiffs is a right cognizable by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	As this question, however, was fully argued before us, I propose to deal with it.
RatioOfTheDecision	I have come to the conclusion that the right claimed by the plain-tiffs is not one on which <ORG> can adjudicate.
RatioOfTheDecision	The dividing line between the class of cases involving questions of religious ritual and usage of which <ORG> can take cognizance and the class of cases involving questions of which it c annot, or at any rate will not, take cognizance is not very clearly defined.
Precedent	The strongest case in favour of the appellant's contention is the decision of this court in Venkatachalapati v. Subbarayadu I.L.R.
Precedent	13 M. 293.
Precedent	There <NAME> claimed the right to enter the inner shrine (where orthodox Brahmains usually made their offerings) of a certain temple.
Precedent	The committee of the temple refused to allow him to enter the inner shrine on the ground that he had married a widow contrary to the Hindu Sastras.
Precedent	In the course of his judgment Sir <NAME> observed, "The right which the appellant claimed in the plaint and which he asked the court to protect, was a right of access to the inner shrine or sanctum sanctorum of a Hindu temple for the purposes of religious worship, and the ground of claim was that prior to his marriage with a Hindu widow, he had that right, and that he did not since forfeit it by reason of such marriage.
Precedent	The question whether with reference to its perquisites, the right continued to e xist after his marriage was one which related to the merits, and whatever might be the decision in regard to it, the right was, in its nature, one which the appellant was at liberty to assert as a citizen and a Brahman and which the courts were bound to adjudicate upon.
Precedent	It may be that an enquiry as to religion or caste, or as to the religious foundation for the excommunication pronounced by the chief priest of Smarta Brahmins, is indispensable to coming to a correct decision, but when the right claimed is asserted to be of a civil nature and which is within the cognizance of Civil <ORG>s, they are bound to hold such enquiry as is ancillary to the exercise of the jurisdiction vested in them by law."
Precedent	The <ORG> directed findings to be returned on the following issues:  1.
Precedent	Whether the general custom of Brahmans worshipping or entitled to worship, in the temple mentioned in the plaint, continued to prohibit, at the date of the suit, marriage with a widow?
Precedent	2.
Precedent	If so, whether, according to the usage of the temple me ntioned in the plaint or according to the original and recognized intention of the foundation, regard being had to its nature and character as a religious and caste institution and to the customary mode of treating those who transgress general caste customs, and thereby lose or impair their caste status, those Brahmans who marry widows are excluded from the inner shrine of the temple by the original and recognized?
Precedent	trusts of the, institution."
Precedent	In the case above referred to the right claimed was "not an exclusive personal right, or a right of domestic or family worship, or a right of property which may be conceived to exist independently of caste or religion, but a joint right to be exercised in a religious institution conformably to caste usage to the extent recognized by it so as not to contravene the equal rights of other members of the caste who are similarly interested in the institution" (p. 299).
Precedent	The question for decision in that case was "what was the recognized general usage of the caste...whether it  was against his (the plaintiff's) marriage with a widow, and if so, whether a departure from that affected his caste status so as to deprive him of the right claimed" (p. 300).
Precedent	In that case the right claimed was one enjoyed by every Brahman, as a Brahman, in common with every member of the community.
Precedent	The question the court adjudicated upon was whether, according to the usage of the temple, a Brahman who married a widow disqualified himself for the enjoyment of this right.
Precedent	In the present case the plaintiff claims a personal right, not common to the community, which, he says, he is entitled to enjoy, in perpetuity on the ground of custom.
Precedent	The custom of which the court took cognizance in the case of <NAME> v. Subtarayadu I.L.R.
Precedent	13 M. 293, was--not the plaintiff's right of access to the inner shrine (which is inherent in all Brahmans who have not become disqualified), but the general usage of the Brahmans which forbids marriage with a widow.
RatioOfTheDecision	The custom we are asked to take cognizance of in this case is  a special custom under which the plaintiffs claim a special privilege not common to the community generally and not essential to the purposes of worship.
RatioOfTheDecision	The plaintiffs do not invoke the aid of the court in order that they may not be obstructed when they go to worship the goddess, but they ask the court to order that the goddess should be brought to them, because, by custom, they have acquired a personal right to require that this should be done.
RatioOfTheDecision	The plaintiffs' claim in the present case appears to me to be essentially different from the claim in the case reported in I.L.R.
Precedent	13 M. 293.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	The view that the present suit comes within the class of cases which a civil court is not competent to adjudicate upon appears to be well supported by authority.
Precedent	In Special Appeal No.
Precedent	94 of 1861 (Judgments of the Madras Sudder Court, 1861, page 152), the plaintiffs and defendants worshipped at the same temple but were members of different castes.
Precedent	The suit was brought to regulate the ritual of the temple service, one of the g rounds of contention between the parties being whether the images should be taken out in procession.
Precedent	The question of taking out the images in procession, however, does not appear to have been raised in the special appeal, and the court declined to entertain the suit on the ground that no pecuniary considerations were involved and that the contests related purely to the constituents of religious worship.
Precedent	The only other case to which our attention has been directed in which that of an idol in procession was involved is a decision of Sir <NAME>, C.J., and Sir <NAME>, J., reported in Subbaraya Gurukal v. Chellappa Mudali I.L.R.
Precedent	4 M. 315.
Precedent	But in that case the plaintiff was the Dharmakartha of the temple and entitled to maintain the suit by reason of the property in the idols being vested in him as a trustee.
Precedent	The right to perform the religious services of an idol is no doubt in a sense "property," and as such is partible (see the judgment of Sir <NAME> in the case reported in <ORG> <NAME> v. Neerujun Aud<NAME> 14 B.L.R.
Precedent	166 but in my judgment, the right set up by the plaintiffs in the present case cannot, without giving an altogether forced and unnatural meaning to the word, be described as a right of property.
Precedent	In the case reported in <NAME> v. <NAME> and Anr.
Precedent	1 M.H.C.R.
Precedent	301 it was held by this court that a Hindu priest could not sue in respect of the withholding of religious observances due to his sacred rank, but unconnected with any special office held by him, although the non-performance of these observances might have caused him some ascertainable pecuniary loss.
Precedent	In the case reported in <CITATION_796321> .
RatioOfTheDecision	2 B.
RatioOfTheDecision	476 the plaintiffs set up an alleged hereditary right to take a cupola to a certain temple and place it upon the car of the idol.
RatioOfTheDecision	The court refused to entertain the suit on the ground that it was brought to vindicate the plaintiffs' right, not to an office but to a mere dignity unconnected with any fees, profits or emoluments.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand it h as been held by this court in the case reported in <CITATION_918130> .
Precedent	6 M., 151, that a suit by a dancing girl whose offerings to the idol had been rejected by the priest on the ground that she had misconducted herself, and in a case reported in Srinivasa v. Tiruvengada I.L.R.
Precedent	11 M. 450, that a suit to establish the plaintiffs' right to present a crown and water to certain persons on certain festivals in a certain temple was cognizable by <ORG>.
Precedent	It will be observed that in both these cases the right claimed was a right to perform acts of worship in a temple.
Precedent	In the present case the right claimed is to have the object of worship brought to the plaintiffs.
Precedent	The distinction may seem fine, but it seems in Accordance with the general proposition laid down by Sir <NAME> in the first of the two cases just referred to.
Precedent	The proposition is "The members of a sect are entitled, subject to the rules made by the duly constituted authorities of the sect, to take part in the public worship of the sect, and  if any of them is wrongfully prevented from so doing, he is entitled to seek from <ORG> such remedies as they can afford him."
Precedent	In the case reported in <NAME> and Anr.
Precedent	v. <NAME> and <NAME>.
Precedent	I.L.R.
Precedent	5 B., 80, the court refused to entertain a suit by the committee of management of a Hindu temple to compel the hereditary priests of the temple to take out certain ornaments from the treasury and place them upon the god on such days as the committee might appoint on the ground that no question of the right to property or to an office was involved, whilst in the case reported in Narayan Vithe Parah v. Krishnaji Sadashiv I.L.R.
Precedent	10 B.
Precedent	233 the court declined to take cognizance of a suit in which the plaintiffs set up the right to be the first to worship the village deity at certain festivals, and in the case reported in <CITATION_251439> .
Precedent	7 M. 91 this court refused to entertain a suit in which the plaintiffs set up a right based on usage to receive before others sacred ashes, &c., in certain pagodas on certai n days.
Precedent	10.
Precedent	On the other hand <ORG> has held, <CITATION_1800793> .
Precedent	7 B.
Precedent	323 that a suit by certain members of a particular caste in which the plaintiffs claimed that the members of their caste, in common with certain other castes, possessed the exclusive right of entry and worship in the sanctuary of a temple, was within the cognizance oil the Civil.
Precedent	Courts.
Precedent	The right set up in this case was the exclusive right of certain castes to worship in the sanctuary of a temple.
Precedent	No question of ritual was involved.
Precedent	The usage upon which the court adjudicated was an alleged caste usage.
Precedent	In the present case the right set up was not based upon caste usage and was not relied upon as a caste privilege.
Precedent	It was a right set by certain individuals which they claimed to enjoy not as members of the caste but as residents in a particular street.
Precedent	11.
Precedent	In a case reported, <CITATION_1639937> .
Precedent	3 C., 390, it was held that a plaint which alleged a refusal to deliver up an idol whereby the person demanding it was prevente d from performing his turn of worship on a specified date, disclosed a cause of action.
Precedent	The point was taken in the settlement of issues and does not seem to have been fully argued.
Precedent	The case is very shortly reported, but it would appear that by the conduct of the defendants, the plaintiffs were wholly deprived of their turn of worship.
Precedent	The present case cannot be put higher than that the plaintiffs have been deprived of certain facilities for worship which they had previously enjoyed.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	In an unreported case decided by this court to which my learned colleague referred (Appeal No.
Precedent	83 of 1895), the plaintiff had brought the right to certain dignities and emoluments and the contention that the honours and dignities were of a religious nature of which <ORG> could not take cognizance was overruled.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that case some of the rights claimed by the plaintiff undoubtedly possessed a money value.
RatioOfTheDecision	Others did not.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it was proved that since 1810 the latter had always been treated as a part and parcel of the  same miras, and they appeared to be rights which were inseparable from the other rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	They had always been classed together, and they had been mortgaged, bought and sold together, and the courts were of opinion that the rights appertaining to the miras were one and indivisible.
RatioOfTheDecision	This being the ground of the decision, the case in no way supports the proposition that <ORG> are competent to adjudicate upon a claim such as that set up in the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	13.
Argument	The appellants' Counsel relived strongly on the judgment of <ORG> in <NAME> v. <ORG> and contended that the proposition laid down by <ORG> with reference to <ORG> in Canada was applicable to the present case.
Precedent	The proposition is as follows: * * * even if this church were to be regarded merely as a private and voluntary religious society resting only upon a consensual basis, Courts of Justice are still bound, when due complaint is made that a member of the society has  been injured as to his rights in any matter of a mixed spiritual and temporal character, to enquire into laws or rules of the tribunal or authority which has inflicted the alleged injury."
Precedent	14.
Precedent	I do not think this proposition, which is very general in its terms and which was advanced in relation to ecclesiastical disputes in a Christian country, ought to be applied so as to affect the rules which the courts of this chantry have laid down with reference to the interference by <ORG> in relation to disputes connected with religious ceremonies or observances in this country.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	To my mind the balance of authority supports the view that the present suit is not cognizable by a civil tribunal.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	I think the suit was rightly dismissed and that this appeal ought to be dismissed with costs.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	17.
Argument	The plaintiffs are residents of Krisrnaswami Covil Street, Black Town, and their case is that on all occasions but one when the goddess of the Kaliarnman Covil is carried out in procession, it has be en the invariable practice for the idol to be taken through their street and stoppages made there in order that they may worship it.
Argument	They allege that last year for the first time the defendant, who is the Dharmakartha of the temple, broke the practice by not taking the procession through their street, and they prayed for a mandatory injunction to compel him to do so in future and for damages.
Argument	The defendant's answer was that he was not bound by the practice, and that he took the procession through a longer route which prevented its going through the plaintiffs' street in order to benefit more worshippers and thereby the temple.
Precedent	The learned Judge who tried the case held that the practice did not constitute a valid, custom binding on the temple authorities and dismissed the suit.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	The plaintiffs appeal.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their evidence shows, and the defendant does not deny that the alleged practice has existed from time immemorial, and that, though in the years 1874 to 1878 the goddess was not taken in procession at all <NAME> g to temple disputes, whenever it has been taken, the customary route through the plaintiffs' street has never been departed from till last year.
RatioOfTheDecision	The plaintiffs accordingly claim to have established a right to worship, the goddess at their own door-steps on these occasions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Each plaintiff sets up an individual right as well as the collective right of the residents of the street generally, which observation I make in order to dispose of the objection taken to the suit with reference to Sections 30 and 539 of the C.P.C.
Fact	The only questions that remain for determination are: (1) Whether the plaintiffs can sue in <ORG> to establish the right they set up, and (2) if so, whether they have established the right.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	On the first question the right of the plaintiffs to worship the goddess is not disputed and that this right of public worship, if infringed, is remediable in a civil court was held in <NAME> v. Pandaveswara I.L.R.
Precedent	6 M. 151, where a dancing girl's offerings to the (sic) were rejected by the p riest.
Precedent	In Subbaraya Gurukal v. <ORG> a case which in its facts is on all fours with this, it was held that a Hindu idol is a "property," and the right to deal with such property is a right cognizable by <ORG>.
Precedent	A similar view was taken by Mr. Justice <NAME> in <CITATION_1639937> .
Precedent	3 C. 390.
Precedent	The right to worship an idol at a particular place or standpoint was recognized as enforceable by a civil court in the cases reported at <CITATION_1800793> .
Precedent	7 B.
Precedent	323 and Venkatachalapati v. Subbarayadu I.L.R.
Precedent	13 M. 293.
Precedent	No decision to the contrary were cited at the <ORG>.
Precedent	All the cases in which it has been held that the civil courts had no jurisdiction were cases in which only the mode of worship was in question, that is, questions relating to the ritual or to precedence and other mere dignities or honours claimed in the exercise of the right of worship.
RatioOfTheDecision	So that I take it there can be no doubt of the plaintiffs' right of suit in this court.
RatioOfTheDecision	20.
RatioOfTheDecision	The other question is whether they have  established the right to worship the goddess in their own street in front of their houses where it was taken out in procession.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact that they have invariably done so hitherto within living memory is itself sufficient in my opinion, to establish the right.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mamool reigns supreme in this country, and it lies on any one who wishes to change the mamool to show good and sufficient reason for so doing especially in a matter affecting the route of an idol's procession, disputes regarding which are a fruitful source of rioting and bloodshed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The defendant has not shown that he had any authority to divert the idol's procession from its ordinary route.
RatioOfTheDecision	The plea that more profit is got by taking the goddess elsewhere is a plea of expediency which cannot avail against the vested right of the plaintiffs.
RatioOfTheDecision	You cannot rob <NAME> to pay <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	There can, however, be no objection to the defendant taking the idol to new places so long as he takes it to the old ones.
Argument	I should therefore, reverse the decree appealed against and  issue a mandatory injunction to the defendant as prayed for by the plaintiffs, viz., that whenever the goddess of the Kaliamman Covil is taken out in procession, the procession must pass through Krisrnaswami Covil Street, except on the three days, 7th, 8th and 9th of the Brahmotsavam festival, which days ought admittedly to be excluded.
Argument	I would also cast the defendant in nominal damages of Rs.
Argument	20 and direct him to pay the plaintiffs' costs throughout.
RulingByPresentCourt	[Under Section 33 of the Letters Patent the appeal is dismissed with costs].
