Fact	ORDER  1.
Fact	The Plaintiff has filed this suit against the Defendant for permanent injunction restraining the Defendant by itself, its servants, agents, distributors and representatives from infringing the Plaintiff's trade mark 'Betaloc' registered under No.
Fact	326230 dated June 16, 1977 in Class 5 in respect of Pharmaceutical preparation by use of the impugned trade mark 'Betalong' or any other trade mark deceptively similar to Plaintiff's said registered trade mark 'Bctaloc' in relation to pharmaceutical preparalions and from manufacturing, selling, offering for sale or otherwise dealing in pharmaceutical preparations bearing the trade mark 'Betalong' or any other mark deceptively simitar to Plaintiffs trade mark 'Betaloc' so as to pass off the Defendants goods as and for the goods of the Plaintiff or in any other manner whatsoever and for damages, costs and other reliefs as prayed for in the Plaint filed.
Fact	The Plaintiff has taken out the present Notice of Motion for interim injunction in terms of permanent injun ction prayed for in the Plaint filed.
Fact	2.
Fact	As averred in the Plaint, the Plaintiff, a public limited company duly incorporated and registered under the provisions of the Companies Act , 1956, is carrying on business of manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical and medicinal products.
Fact	The Plaintiff is proprietor of trade mark 'Betaloc' which is registered under No.
Fact	326230 dated June 16, 1977, in Class 5 in respect of the pharmaccu-ticals preparation.
Fact	According to the plaintiff, by virtue of registration of the trade mark 'Betaloc' under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act , 1958, (hereinafter referred to as 'the said Act"), and its long, extensive and continuous use and reputation, the Plaintiff has acquired proprietary rights in the said trade mark 'Betaloc' and is entitled to its exclusive use in respect of all kinds of pharmaceutical preparations in Class 5 under the said Act and the Rules made thereunder.
Fact	The Defendant is also a limited company duly incorporated and registered under the provisions of the Compa nies Act , 1956.
Fact	The Defendant is also carrying on similar business in manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical and medicinal products.
Fact	It is the case of the <ORG>intiff that in or about the month of November 1987, the <ORG>intiff became aware of the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical product under the trade name 'Betalong' by the Defendant.
Fact	The <ORG>intiff has been using the said trade mark 'Betaloc' in respect of drug for the treatment of hyper tension, angina pectoris, arrythanias, etc.
Fact	The Defendant's product is also for the treatment of hyper tension, angina pectoris, arrythanias, etc.
Fact	On acquiring the knowledge about the Defendant's said product, the <ORG>intiff realised that its rights were being impaired by the Defendant and as such the <ORG>intiff through its trade mark attorneys served a cease and desist notice dated November 18, 1987 upon the Defendant.
Fact	The'said letter was replied by the Defendant vide its letter dated December 28, 1987.
Argument	The Defendant refused to comply with the requisitions made by the <ORG> intiff in the said cease and desist notice- According to the Plaintiff, despite the said cease and desist notice the Defendant has been continuing the use of the trade mark 'Betalong' with a view to trade upon and benefit from the reputation and goodwill enjoyed by the plaintiff's trade mark 'Betaloc'.
Argument	The Plaintiff has averred that the trade and public in normal course are likely to believe that the Defendant's goods also emanates from the Plainiff.
Argument	It is the case of the Plaintiff that the Defendant has adopted the trade mark 'Betalong' with dishonest intention and the Defendant has committed acts of infringement in adopting and using the similar trade mark 'Betalong' in respect of the similar goods.
Argument	According to the Plaintiff, the said goods of the Defendant bearing the trade mark 'Betalong' are being passed off and are likely to be passed off as and for the well-known goods of the Plaintiff sold under the trade mark 'Betaloc'.
Argument	3.
Fact	According to the Defendant, in the year 1986, the Defendant decided to manuf acture and launch a new product for controlling hyper tension and treatment of angina pectoris and arrythanias.
Fact	For that product the Defendant coined and selected the trade mark 'Betalong' and in the month of March 1986 the Defendant applied for registration of that trade mark under the said Act.
Fact	The application of the Defendant is filed under No.
Fact	451743 on March 31, 1986 and is still pending.
Fact	The new product of the Defendant was marketed and sold under the trade mark 'Betalong' and the first sale thereof took place on December 29, 1986.
Fact	According to the Defendant, during the period between December 29, 1986 to May 31, 1987, the Defendant has sold the said product under the trade name 'Betalong' of the aggregate value of Rs.
Fact	2,90,265-64 and during the period from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988, the Defendant has sold the said product under the said trade mark 'Betalong' of the aggregate value of Rs.
Fact	3,57,994-30.
Fact	During the period commencing from June 1, 1988 to November 18, 1988, the Defendant had sold the said  products under the said trade mark 'Betalong' of the aggregate value of Rs.
Fact	1,31,407-92 ps.
Fact	Since November 18, 1988, in view of the ad interim order of injunction passed by this Court has withheld the sale of the said product under the trade mark 'Betalong'.
Argument	It is the case of the Defendant that the said product 'Betalong' has been continuously marketed and sold all over India till November 18, 1988 and that the said proudct has been identified with the Defendant and has acquired good reputation and goodwill.
Argument	It is the case of the Defendant that the said product 'Betalong' is a drug which falls under Schedule 'H' to the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules and as such can be sold only by a chemist holding appropriate licence under the said Rules and that too on the prescription of a registered medical practitioner.
Argument	The Plaintiff's product 'Betaloc' is also a drug falling under Schedule 'H' to the said rules and as such the plaintiffs product 'Betaloc' can only be sold by a chemist holding appropriate licence under the s aid Rules and that too on the prescription of a registered medical practitioner.
Argument	4.
Argument	According to the <ORG>ant, the human heart allows blood vessles (arteries) as Beta Receptors.
Argument	Catecholomines which are a type of hormones act on these beta receptors and bring about a reaction which causes abnormal constriction of the heart as well as of the blood vessles resulting in hyper tension.
Argument	the <ORG>ant's said product taken in appropriate doses blocks the said action of Catecholomines on beta receptors and keeps the heart and the blood vessles in normal condition.
Argument	This blocking effect of the <ORG>ant's product is of a longer duration.
Argument	The <ORG>ant, therefore, in coining the word trade mark for is said product took therword 'Beta' as representing 'beta receptors' and coined it with the word 'long' representing the longer duration for which it blocks or controls the action of the said harmones of beta receptors.
Argument	It is the case of the <ORG>ant that the said trade mark 'Betaiong' was coined and adopted by the <ORG> ant for its said product without reference to the Plaintiffs alleged trade mark 'Betaloc'.
Argument	The Defendant was not aware of the Plaintiff's alleged trade mark 'Betaloc'.
Argument	The Defendant's product is in the form of sustained release capsules which means that the requisite quantity of the drug in requisite doses is released into the system over a period of 24 hours so as to ensure longer protection.
Argument	This distinguishing feature of the Defendant's product is well appreciated by the medical practitioner and as such the medical practitioner are not likely to be confused or deceived in selecting the right product by reason of the alleged similarity of the Plaintiff's mark with that of the Defendant's said mark.
Argument	It is further the case of the Defendant that there are a number of similar products in the market which are sold under the trade marks beginning which the word 'Beta'.
Argument	Some of these trade marks are 'Betabloc', 'Betadure', 'Betanole', 'Betacard', 'Betaspar' and 'Betazin'.
Argument	The Defendant has denied that by virtue'Of  long, exclusive and continuous use the Plaintiffs trade mark 'Betaloc' is distinctive of or is exclusively identified with the Plaintiffs goods.
Argument	Although according to the Plaintiff the annual sales of its product sold under the trade mark 'Betaloc' for the period from July 1, 1987, to June 30, 1988, aggregated to Rs.
Argument	1,72,26,000/-, the Defendant has denied the correctness of the said annual sales figures of the Plaintiff.
Argument	According to the Defendant, its trade mark 'Betalong' is not similar to the Plaintiff's trade mark 'Bealoc' and the 'Beta' being common in the trade, the Plaintiff cannot have any monopoly or exclusive right to the use of 'Beta' or the right to prevent others from using that word.
Argument	It is the case of the Defendant that the letters 'loc' which form the other part of the Plaintiff's trade mark 'Betaloc' do not convey any idea nor do they have any meaning in the English language.
Argument	The pronunciation of the three letters 'loc' taken together is short and terse and the sound thereof is soft.
Argument	As agai nst these features of the Plaintiff's trade mark, the word 'long' which is the second part of the Defendant's trade mark has a specific connotation, lengthy duration and the pronunciation of the word 'long' is lengthened and not terse.
Argument	Thus, according to the Defendant, taking Defendant's trade mark as a whole, its prominent feature phonetically is the lengthy pronunciation with nasal sound having twang and connotation of a duration opposed to short ways and prominent feature phonetically of Plaintiffs trade mark taken as a whole is the short and terse pronunciation lacking nasal sound with no connotation.
Argument	Hence, according to the Defendant, the two trade marks can by no means be called similar or deceptively or confusingly similar and as such the Plaintiff cannot in law have any grievance against or objection to the use by the Defendant of its trade mark 'Betalong'.
Argument	5.
Statute	Section 2(d) of the said Act reads as under:--  "2.
Statute	Definition and interpretation:--  (d) "deceptively similar" - A mark shall be deemed to be  deceptively similar to 'another mark if it so nearly resembles that other mark as to be likely to deceive or cause confusion."
RatioOfTheDecision	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME>, the learned Counsel for the Plaintiff, has submitted that for deciding the question of deceptive similarity, the <ORG> have laid down that the following factors should be taken into consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	"(a) The nature of the marks i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	whether the marks are word marks or label marks or composite marks i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	both word and label marks;  (b) The degree of resemblance between the marks phonetically, visually as well as similarity in idea;  (c) The nature of the goods in respect of which they are used as trade marks;  (d) The similarity in the nature, character and purpose of the goods of the rival traders;  (e) The class of purchasers who are likely to buy the goods bearing the marks, thier level of education and intelligence and the degree of care they are likely to exercise in purchasing the goods;  (f) The mode of purchasing the goods or placing orders for the goods;  and  (g) Any other surrounding circumstances."
Argument	7.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> has further submitted that weightage to be given to each of the aforesaid factors depends on facts of each case and the same weightage cannot be given to each factor in every case.
Argument	In support of his submission, Mr. <NAME> has relied upon the case of <ORG> v. <NAME>, , where it has been held that the said Act does not lay down any criteria for determining what is likely to deceive or cause confusion within the meaning of Section 8(a) and Section 10(1) and therefore evey case must depend on its own particular facts and the value of the authority lies not so much in the actual decision as in the tests applied for determining what is likely to deceive or cause confusion.
Argument	In the case before <ORG> an application for registration of trade name '<NAME>' in respect of medicinal preparation for the alleviation of various ailments was opposed by the proprietors of the trade name '<NAME>' which was <NAME> dy registered as trade name in respect of similar medicinal preparation of the opponents.
Argument	On the question whether the trade name '<NAME>' was likely to deceive the public or cause confusion to trade, it was held that the question had to be approached from the point of view of a man -of average intelligence and imperfect recollection.
Argument	To such a man, overall structural and phonetic similarity of the two names '<NAME>' and '<NAME>' was likely to deceive or cause confusion.
Argument	It was further held that the over all similarity of the composile words '<NAME>' and '<NAME>' had to be considered having regard to the circumstance that the goods bearing the two names are medicinal preparation of the same description.
RatioOfTheDecision	After considering various authorities cited before <ORG>, <ORG> has held as under :--  "(9) We agree that the use of the word, 'dhara' which literally means 'current or stream' is not by itself decisive of the matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	What we have to consider here is the overall si milarity of the composite words having regard to the circumstance that the goods bearing the two names are medicinal preparations of the same description.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are aware that the admission of a mark is not to be refused, because unusually stupid people, "fools or idiots", may be deceived.
RatioOfTheDecision	A critical comparison of the two names may disclose some points of difference but an unwary purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect recollection would be deceived by the overall similarity of the two names having regard to the nature of the medicine he is looking for with a somewhat vague recollection that he had purchased a similar medicine on a previous occasion with a similar name.
RatioOfTheDecision	The trade mark is the whole thing -- the whole word has to be considered.
Precedent	In the case of the application to register 'Erectiks' (opposed by the proprietors of the trade mark 'Erector') Farwell, <NAME> said in <ORG> Application, (1935) 52 RFC 136 :  "I do not think it is right to take a part of the word and compare  it with a part of the other word, one word must be.
Precedent	Considered as a whole and compared with the other word as a whole....I think it is dangerous method to adopt to device the word up and seek to distinguish a portion of it from a portion of the other word."
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> has also relied upon the case of <CITATION_781364> where it has been held as under:--  "In deciding the question of similarity of two marks, the following well established principles are to be observed :-- (i) marks are remembered by general impressions or by some significant detail rather than by a photographic recollection of the whole, (ii) overall similarity is the touchstone, (in) marks must be looked at from the first impression of a person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection; (iv) overall structure, phonetic similarity and similarity of idea arc important and both visual and phonetic tests must be applied, (v) marks must be compared as a whole, microscopic examination being impermissible, and (vi) the broad and salien t features must be considered for which the marks must not be placed side by side to find out differences in design.
Precedent	In addition, the nature of the commodity, the class of purchasers, the mode of purchase and other surrounding circumstances must also be taken into consideration."
Precedent	8.
Precedent	Reliance has also been placed on behalf of the plaintiff on the case of <CITATION_1883538> ., reported in ATR 1960 SC 142.
Precedent	In this case it has been held that in deciding a question of similarity between the two marks the marks have to be considered as a whole.
Precedent	<ORG> has further held that in deciding the question of similarity between the two marks, the <ORG> has to approach it from the point of view of a man of average intelligence and of imperfect recollection.
Precedent	To such a man the overall structural and phonetic similarity and the similarity of the idea in the two marks is reasonably likely to cause a confusion between them.
Precedent	<ORG> has further held that the absolute identity of the two competitive marks or t heir close resemblance is only one of the tests for determining the question of likelihood of deception or confusion.
Precedent	Trade connection between different goods is another such test.
Precedent	In the case before the <ORG> respondent had applied for registration of the mark 'Gluvita' used with reference to biscuits manufactured by it.
Precedent	The appellant, who had been using the registered mark 'Glucovita' with reference to his glucose with vitamins opposed the application under S. 8(a) of the said Act.
Precedent	It was established tha the applicant's trade mark had acquired a reputation amongst the buying public.
Precedent	Applying the said test the <ORG> held that the com-modites concerned were so connected as to make confusion or deception likely in view of the similarity of the two trade marks.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was further held that apart from the syllable 'co'in the appellant's marks, the marks were identical, that syllable was not such as would enable the buyers in our country to distinguish the one mark from the other.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence, the responden t's mark could not be registered.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also held by <ORG> that mere existence of series of marks registered or unregistered having a common feature or a common syllable is by itself not sufficient.
RatioOfTheDecision	The applicant is required to prove that these series of marks have acquired a reputation by user in the market.
RatioOfTheDecision	The onus of proving such user is of course on the applicant who wants to rely on those marks.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the instant case, apart from the syllabic 'ng' in the Defendant's mark, the two marks are identical.
RatioOfTheDecision	That syllable is not such as would enable the buyers in our country to distinguish the one mark from the other.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further, although the Defendant has stated that there are many marks with prefix 'Beta' in existence and has also relied upon <ORG> as also on <ORG>, the Defendant has not been able (o prove that the said marks are in use.
RatioOfTheDecision	The -Defendant has also not established that 'Beta' in common to trade.
RatioOfTheDecision	No instance of the other marks being in us e has been given by the defendant nor any invoice pertaining to availability of the product in the market has been relied upon by the Defendant.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> has next relied upon the case, viz.
Precedent	In the matter of an application by <ORG> reported in (1922) 39 RPC 155.
Precedent	In this case an application was made to register the mark "<NAME>".
Precedent	The said application was opposed by the prorietors of a trade mark "<NAME>".
Precedent	The <ORG> having refused the application, the applicants appealed to <ORG> which was decided by <NAME> In this case it has been held that in cases of alleged confusion.
Precedent	the interest of the public was more important consideration than the relevant rights of the parties.
Precedent	On the fads of that case, it was held that the first syllable 'Eg' could not be disregarded because it had some relation to the nature of the goods but that in such cases the totality of the two marks must be considered, that "<NAME>" was so similar to "<NAME>" as to make confusion likely.
Precedent	The appeal wa s thus dismissed.
Precedent	10.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> has rightly submitted that the question of likelihood of confusion had to be decided by comparison of marks as a whole.
Precedent	In support of his submission, Mr. <NAME> had relied upon the case of <CITATION_1389940> .
Precedent	re-ported'in MR 1970 SC 2062.
Fact	In that case the appellants had applied for registration of the trade mark "Protovit".
Fact	The application was granted and the appellants mark was registered in Class V in respect of pharmaceutical preparation for human use and for veterinary use, infants' and invalids' foods.
Fact	The appellants thereafter used that mark on multi-vitamin preparations in liquid and tablet forms and their goods were sold under that mark since the year 1951.
Fact	In January 1957, the respondents therein applied for registration of their mark 'Dropovit' in respect of medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations and substances.
Fact	The application was registered and since the advertisement of the respondents' application escaped the notice of the appellants, the appellant s did not oppose the registration.
Fact	Thereafter, the appellants applied for rectification of the Register by removal therefrom of the respondents' trade mark.
Fact	The ground urged in support of the application was that the respondents' mark so nearly resembled the appellants' mark as to be likely to deceive ot cause confusion.
Fact	The appellants thereafter applied for amendment of the application and an additional ground was taken that 'Dropovit' was not an invented word.
Fact	The application for amendment was allowed by the Registrar.
Fact	The amended application was opposed by the respondents.
Fact	The Joint Registrar rejected the application for rectification holding that 'Dropovit' was not deceptively similar to 'Protovit' and that the word 'Dropovit' considered as a whole was not deceptive.
Fact	The matter was taken in appeal to this Court.
Fact	The appeal was dismissed.
Fact	The appellants then preferred an appeal under Letters Patent but the appeal was dismissed by <ORG> of this Court.
Fact	Before <ORG>, the appeal was br ought by certificate from the judgment of this <ORG> in the appeal.
Precedent	While considering the test for comparison of the two words marks for-mualted by Lord <NAME> in <ORG> application (1908) 23 RPC 774, the Supreme <ORG> has held as under (at p. 2065 of AIR):  "It is also important that the marks must be compared as a whole It is not right to take a portion of the word and say that because that portion of the word differs from the corresponding portion of the word in the other case there is no sufficient similarity to cause confusion.
Precedent	The true test is whether the totality of the proposed trade mark is such that it is likely to cause deception or confusion or mistake in the minds of persons accustomed to the existing trade mark."
Precedent	11.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> has also relied upon the case of "<ORG>" trade mark, reported in 1966 RPC 152.
Precedent	In that case an application to register the word '<ORG>' in respect of clocks and watches was opposed by the registered proprietors of the marks 'Accurist' registered  in respect of wrist watches, and 'Accularm' registered in respect of alarm clocks.
Precedent	The Registrar found that although the marks viewed side by side or compared phonetically were not confusingly similar, nevertheless there was a reasonable probability of confusion taking into_account imperfect recollection, and the fact that both the applicants' and the opponents' marks would be used in very small letters on the faces of watches.
Precedent	Accordingly he refused registration.
Precedent	On appeal to <ORG> the applicants contended that the opponents could not obtain any monopoly in the word 'accurate' by means of their registration, and therefore distinctiveness of the opponents marks had to be found other than in first letters 'accu'.
Precedent	<ORG> held:  i) that as the mark applied for and the opponents' marks were invented words, it was not proper to disregard such elements of the words which were deceptive and therefore the question of likelihood of confusion had to be decided by a comparison of the marks as a whole;   ii) that on comparison of the marks it appeared that there was a likelihood of confusion which the applicants who had not used their mark, had been able to dispel by evidence.
Precedent	The application was therefore rightly dismissed."
Precedent	12.
Argument	In this connection, Mr. <NAME>, the learned Counsel appearing for the Defendant, has submitted that where there are several marks with common prefix proper attention should be given to the termination of the marks.
Fact	In support of his submission, Mr. <NAME> has relied upon the case reported in (1978) RPC 406- In that case, the applicant sought to register "Rheumation" in class 1 in Part A of the register in respect of diagnostic laboratory reagents.
Fact	Opponents objected on the ground that the mark did not meet the requirements of Ss.
Precedent	9 and 10 of Trade Marks Act , 1938 and that the mark conflicted with their mark "Rheumanosticon" registered in classes 1 and 5.
Precedent	It was, inter alia, held in that case that despite common prefix "Rheuma" there were special factors in that case winch ruled out a ny likelihood of confusion, in particular the attention which laboratory staff would be likely to pay to the terminations of the marks when ordering diagnostic preparations.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> also relied upon the case of <NAME> v. <ORG>, reported in (1909) 26 RPC 651.
Precedent	In that case, the plaintiffs who used "Acquasontum" as the name of garments sold by them, brought an action to restrain the Defendants from passing off garments not of the plaintiffs' manufacture as and for garments of such manufacture.
Precedent	The plaintiffs therein complained to the use of the name "Aquatite" by the defendants.
Precedent	Holding that what the defendants therein was doing was not, having regard to the surrounding circumstances calculated to deceive, the action of the plaintiffs therein was dismissed with costs.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> has also relied upon the case in the matter of the application of <ORG> for the registration of a trade mark reported in (1955) 72 RPC 151.
Precedent	In that case <ORG> had applied to register the word "D ustic" for adhesives for industrial purposes.
Precedent	The said application was opposed by <ORG> on the grounds (inter alia) that the word "Dustic" was not an invented word, being merely a misspelling of "Does stick"; that the word had direct reference to the character or quality of the goods; and that it was liable to be confused with other registered marks and in particular with the mark "Bostik" registered by the opponents therein for certain classes of adhesives.
Precedent	It was stated by the applicants therein and admitted by the opponents therein that the word "Dustic"was derived from the first two letters of Dundas and the termination 'stic' or 'stik' commonly used in names of adhesives.
Precedent	The Asstt.
Precedent	Comptroller held that :  i) the word 'Dustic' was an invented word and has no reference to the character or to the quality of the goods;  ii) it was not liable to be confused with opponents' mark 'Bostik' regard being had to the number of marks for adhesives ending in 'stic' or a like termination;  iii) that registra tion of the mark applied for should be allowed.
Precedent	The opponents in that case appealed to the <ORG> and Justice <NAME>, held that :  i) "Dustic" was an invented word;  ii)'the decision of the Asstt.
Precedent	Comptroller to the effect that it was not liable to cause confusion was correct;  iii) the appeal was dismissed.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> has further submitted that visually also the mark 'Betalong' is different from the mark 'Betaloc'.
Precedent	He has further submitted (hat the syllable 'g' in the mark 'Betalong' trailed below and as such the mark 'Betalong' is visually different than the mark 'Betaloc'.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	As held in the case (Supra) the totality of the mark is required to be considered to hold as to whether or not the mark is deceptively similar.
Precedent	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the instant case in deciding whether the word 'Betalong' is deceptively similar to the word 'Betaloc', each of the two words must, therefore, be taken as a whole word.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words are so similar that there is reasonable probability of confusion between the words both from the  visual and phonetic point of view.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not a matter for microscopic inspection, but to be taken from the general and even casual point of view of a customer walking into a shop.
RatioOfTheDecision	As observed above in the instant case, apart from the syllable 'ng' in defendants' mark, the two marks are identical.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if proper attention is paid to the termination of the marks, the likelihood of confusion being caused cannot be ruled out.
RatioOfTheDecision	The mark 'Betaloc' is too near and so similar to the mark 'Betalong' as to make the confusion likely.
Precedent	In my view, Mr. <NAME> has rightly placed reliance upon the case of <CITATION_1300598> .
Precedent	decided by <NAME> on July 22, 1988 in I.
Precedent	A.
Precedent	No.
Fact	8916/87 in suit No.
Fact	2614/87 in <ORG> in support of his submission that even phonetically the two marks 'Betaloc' and 'Betalong' are similar.
Fact	In that case, the plaintiffs who were registered proprietors of the trade mark.
Fact	'Calmpose' for medicinal preparation filed a suit for infringment and passing off against the defendants t herein who commenced manufacturing and marketing a single medicinal preparation under the trade mark 'Calmprose' and applied for an ex parte ad interim injunction.
Fact	In its reply the defendants therein contended that the two trade marks 'Calmpose' and Calmprose' were phonetically different and that in any case since the medicine could be sold by chemists only on the written prescription of a registered medical practitioner, there could be little likelihood of deception or confusion arising by the use of the marks.
Fact	While making absolute the ad interim injunction, <ORG> held that the marks 'Calmpose' and 'Calmprose' were phonetically similar.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to Mr. <NAME>, the said decision has no applicability to the facts of the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	I see no reason why the said decision has no applicability to the facts of the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my view in the instant case, phonetically visually and structurally both the marks are similar.
RatioOfTheDecision	Actual deception is not necessary to be proved.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is material in  the circumstances is likelihood of deception.
RatioOfTheDecision	19.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> has submitted that since medicines could be sold by the chemists only on written prescription of a registered medical practitioner, there is no likelihood of confusion or deception by use of both the said marks.
Argument	In support of his submission, Mr. <NAME> has relied upon an unreported decision of this Court in the case of <ORG> v. <ORG> in Suit No.
RatioOfTheDecision	749/71 delivered by <ORG> on July 13, 1972.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that case a notice of motion was taken out by the plaintiffs who are a very wellknown company manufacturing drugs for an injunction restraining the defendants therein pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit, from using in relation to certain pharmaceutical and medicinal preparations labels and cartons deceptively similar to the articles and cartons of the plaintiffs so as to pass off the defendants' goods and products as and for the goods and products of the plaintiffs, as well as for an interlocutory injuncti on restraining the defendants from printing and using the said labels and cartons so as to constitute an infringement of the plaintiffs' copyright in the artistic work contained in their correspondence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr, <NAME> has then submitted that the class of persons to use the goods and the nature of goods as also the mode of purchase are the factors which are to be taken into consideration in deciding as to likelihood of confusion or deception being caused by the use of the marks.
RatioOfTheDecision	He has further submitted that from the nature of the goods, both being medicines for Ireatment of heart ailment it is likely that customers would obtain prescription from a doctor and show it to the chemist before the purchase.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a case, in the submission of Mr. <NAME> the chance of confusion is remote.
Precedent	In support of his this submission, Mr. <NAME> has put reliance on the case of <ORG> (supra).
Precedent	20.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> has also placed reliance on the case of <CITATION_556016> .
Precedent	, where the question of mode of purchase  has been considered for deciding as to likelihood of causing confusion by use of the marks.
Precedent	In that case, the trade mark 'Complamina' of <ORG> was registered for a medicinal and pharmaceutical preparation and was sold in the form of ampoules and tablets for the treatment of vascular disorders.
Precedent	<ORG> who were carrying on like business filed an application for registration their name the mark 'Ciplamina' proposed to be used by them in respect of pharmaceulical and medicinal preparatio ,.
Precedent	The said application was opposed on the ground that the proposed mark was deceptively similar to the said registered mark.
Precedent	On the facts of the said case it was held that there was no deceptive similarity between the said two marks.
Precedent	No person, be he a layman of average intelligence and imperfect recollection or a medical practitioner, is likely to confuse one for the other.
Precedent	The visual impression of the two words is not conducive to any such confusion.
Precedent	It wa s also held in that case tha!
Precedent	there was phonetic dissimilarity between the two words.
Precedent	So far as the instant case is concerned, as observed hereinabove, phonetically, visually and structurally both the marks are similar.
Precedent	21.
Precedent	While putting reliance on the case of <ORG> in 1979 RPC 481, Mr. <NAME> submitted that doctors and pharmacists were trained to take very great care in their work and if in doubt, to check before acting and since the medicines are to be dispensed on medical preparations, there is no likelihood of any confusion being caused.
Precedent	In the <ORG>'s case the likelihood of confusion being caused was held not to be there in relation to the two products as them marketed, viz., 'Danol' (for suppression of menstrual cycle in capsul form) and 'De-noP (for ulcer in liquid form).
Precedent	When the defendants in that case wished to introduce a solid presentation of 'De-nol', the plaintiffs therein having become aware of the defendants' intention sought an injunction to restrain  passing off on a quia timet basis.
Precedent	It was urged that if 'De-nol' was sold in a solid form there would be substantial likelihood of confusion with plaintiffs' products 'Danol'.
Precedent	The defendants therein while admitting the likelihood of confusion and deception sought analogus injunctive relief against the plaintiffs.
Precedent	It was held :  i) that in relation fo the two products as presently marketed there had been no actual confusion and there was no likelihood of confusion as doctors and pharmacists were trained to take very great care in their work and if in doubt to check before acting;  ii) that a real likelihood of confusion would only arise if the defendants produced and marketed a solid formulation of their product;  iii) that the defendants might produce a solid formulation of 'De-nol' was, when the plaintiff's introduced their products, no more than a limited possibility.
RatioOfTheDecision	The plaintiffs' course of action with regard to choice of mark had therefore been reasonable.
RatioOfTheDecision	iv) Accordingly the plaintiffs were entitled  to judgment, but, since there was no immediate market threat, (his was an inappropriate case for injunctive relief.
RatioOfTheDecision	22.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> has submitted that although the medicines are dispensed on medical prescription the marks being visually, phonetically and structurally similar, the likelihood of confusion being caused is greater.
Fact	In support of his/this submission, Mr. <NAME> has rightly relied upon the case of <ORG> v.<NAME> and <ORG> reported in (1989) 14 (2) IPLR 60.
Fact	In that case the plaintiffs were the proprietors of the trade mark 'Septran' registered in 1969 and in continuous use since 1974 for a medicinal preparation in liquid and tablet form for treatment of respiratory and urinary ailments.
Fact	The plaintiffs were selling 'Septran' tablets in strips packing and these strips were in turn packed in cartons.
Fact	The plaintiffs claimed to be the owners of copyright in 'Septran' strips and 'Septran' cartons as original artistic works and had obtained  registration of the artistic work on cartons under the Copyright Act in the year 1974.
Fact	The defendant No.
Fact	1. was carrying on business in the name and style of <ORG> at Kandivli, Bombay and also at Kota, Rajasthan.
Fact	Defendant No.
Fact	2 <ORG> was a firm carrying on manufacture and business of medical preparations at Kota Rajasthan with an office in Kandivali.
Fact	Bombay.
Fact	The plaintiffs found that the defendants were selling tablets under the mark 'Celran' in strips and cartons identical with those of the plaintiffs.
Fact	The suit was therefore filed by the plaintiffs for infringement and application for ad-interim injunction was therein made which was granted.
Fact	The Court, inter alia, held that :  i) the defendants' mark was deceptively similar to plaintiffs' registered trade mark and the get-up, colour scheme, etc.
Fact	of the rival strips and cartons were identical;  ii) that the defendants were using the infringing mark and deceptive cartons with a view to trading on the plaint iffs' reputation and their contention that there could not be any deception since the medicines needed doctor's prescription was not acceptable as the defendants' mark and phonetically similar to the plaintiffs' mark.
Precedent	23.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> also relied upon the case of <ORG> (<ORG>).
Precedent	In that case <ORG> while holding that the marks 'Calmpose' and 'Calmprose' were phonetically similar also held that it was not unknown that the medicines were also available across the counter in the shops of various chemists and that the test to be adopted is not only of the doctor who is giving the prescription but was whether an unwary customer who went to purchase the medicine could make a mistake.
Precedent	In my view, in the present circumstances, doctor's prescription factor has lost its importance since the reality of the situation cannot be ignored.
RatioOfTheDecision	In India scheduled drugs which are to be sold under doctor's prescriplion are even sold without production of doctor's prescription and as such reduces  the weightage that can be given to this aspect of the matter while considering the question of deceptive similarity.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> cannot close its eyes to the existing circumstances and judicial notice of the factual aspects in existence has to be taken.
RatioOfTheDecision	In case where the fact of the medicines being sold on <ORG>'s prescription has been taken into consideration for deciding the there was no likelihood of confusion being created, the marks were not visually, phonetically and structurally similar.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the instant case the two marks 'Betaloc' and 'Betalong' being visually, phonetically and structurally similar and so close to each other that it outweighs the weightage to be given to the factor that the goods are scheduled drugs.
Precedent	The two marks are to be compared as a whole and the prefix 'Beta' cannot be ignored in the matter of such comparison.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> has then submitted that even if the defence of the medicines being available on doctor's prescription is ignored, the two marks are not similar.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> h as put reliance in the matter of application by <ORG> and In the matter of opposition by <ORG> reported in (1947) 64 RPC 125.
Precedent	In that case an application to register 'Diasil' for pharmaceutical preparations for internal and external use was opposed by the proprietors of marks 'Alasil' registered in respect of same description of goods.
Precedent	On the facts of that case, <ORG> held that the likelihood of confusion between the marks if the applicants' marks were registered and used in respect of sulpha-diazine preparations was too remote to justify refusing the registration.
Precedent	The possibility of a person confusing the opponents' and applicants' preparations on his own medicine table rested on the assumption of a number of coinciding circumstances, all of which were unlikely to occur simultaneously.
Precedent	In that case on the facts thereof, the <ORG> took the view that neither of the initial syllable 'Di' or 'A1' has any characteristic or distinctive feature, anyting forcefully or emphaticall y that will leave such an impression on the hearer's mind as will entirely outweigh the fact that the last two syllables of the words are identical and will enable it to remember the one word so clearly and distinctively that he would not be likely to confuse it with the other word.
Precedent	As observed earlier, in the instant case, the two marks are so close and so nearer and visually and phonetically and structurally similar that the likelihood of confusion is greater.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> has also relied upon the case of <ORG> v. <ORG> in Misc.
Precedent	Petn.
Precedent	No.
Precedent	159 of 1987 decided on March 22, 1990 by <NAME> of this Court.
Precedent	The petitioners in that case have been manufacturers and dealers in medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations and registered owners of trade mark 'Pilex'.
Precedent	The said mark is used in respect of ayurvedic preparation for treatment of piles in the form of ointments and tablets.
Fact	The 1st respondent filed an application for registration of the trade mark consisting of the word 'Pr ilex' in class 5 in respect of antibiotic medicinal preparations.
Fact	The petitioners opposed the said application.
Fact	The Registrar ordered registration of 1st respondent's trade mark 'Prilex' and being aggrieved from the said order the said Misc.
Fact	Petition by way of appeal was filed by the petitioners.
Precedent	In that case the registration of the trade mark 'Prilex' was allowed since the petitioners' product 'Pilex' is an ayurvedic product and the 1st respondents' products 'Prilex' is an allopathic product and that the 1st respondents' product being schedule-H drug could only be available against prescription under the Drugs Rules, In the circumstances of the case it was held that there was no possibility of confusion and/or deception.
Precedent	26.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> has then submitted that the mark 'Betalong' has been honestly adopted by the defendants and as such there is no question of defendants being injuncted.from using the said mark.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> has submitted that the alleged honesty in adoption of the mark 'Betalong' by the Def endants is irrelevant in an action for infringement and passing off and the absence of an intention to deceive is not a defence.
Precedent	In this respect Mr. <NAME> has relied upon para 16-16 at page 357 of <NAME>'s <ORG> (12th Edition), which reads as under:--  "Passing-off cases are often cases of deliberate and intentional misrepresentation, but it is well settled that fraud is not a necessary element of the right of action, and the absence of an intention to deceive is not a defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover, literal truth is not necessarily innocent of misrepresentation.
RatioOfTheDecision	If a man makes a statement which is true, but which carried with it a false representation and induces the belief that his goods are the plaintiff's goods, he will be restrained by injunction.
RatioOfTheDecision	He cannot rely on the fact that his statement is literally and accurately true if, notwithstanding the truth, it carries with it a false representation.
Precedent	Proof of fraudulent intention may, however, materially assist a plaintiff in establis hing probability of deception."
Precedent	27.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> has then submitted that the totality of factors should be looked into arid if the plaintiff has reasonable chance of success in the suit at the final hearing, then only the plaintiff should be granted the relief in the present Notice of Motion.
Argument	In support of his/ this submission Mr. <NAME> has put reliance on the case of <ORG> v. <ORG> in Appeal 244 of 1989 decided by this <ORG> on March 15, 1989, (<NAME> and <NAME> JJ).
Fact	In that case the appellants sought an injunction to restrain the respondents from using the trade mark 'Slimex'.
Fact	The appellant's trade mark is 'Slimerax'.
Fact	The appellants' products consisted of tablets used for the purpose of reducing obesity.
Fact	The respondents' product is a homeopathic medicine which is available in liquid form.
Fact	It is available in bottles.
Fact	On the facts of that case it was held that the two trade marks 'Slimex' and 'Slimerax' did not appear to be deceptively similar and as such certain conditi ons like filing accounts every six months by the respondents were imposed since it was doubtful as to whether the appellants had reasonable chance of succeeding in the suit at the final hearing.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as the facts of the instant case are concerned, as observed here-inabove, the two marks are visually, phonetically and structurally similar and the impugned mark of the Defendant is so near and close to the registered mark of the Plaintiff that it is likely to cause confusion if the Defendant is permitted to use the said mark 'Betalong'.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the facts of the case and looking to the totality of factors, I am satisfied that the plaintiff has reasonable chance of success in the suit at its final hearing.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	Applying the three-fold tests of phonetic, visual and structural similarity and considering the various authorities cited and referred hereinabove, I am of the opinion that the Plaintiff has made out a very strong prima facie case for grant of interlocutory reliefs as prayed for in the Notice of Motion.
Precedent	29.
Argument	M r. <NAME> has lastly submitted that the Defendant is in the market since the year 1986 and the suit has been filed by the Plaintiff on September 30, 1988 and as such, the Plaintiff is guilty of gross delay in approaching this Court and therefore not entitled to any interim relief from this Court.
Fact	According to Mr. <NAME>, the Plaintiff is not guilty of any delay in approaching this Court.
Fact	Immediately on acquiring knowledge of the Defendant marketing its product 'Betalong', the Plaintiff had served notice upon the Defendant on November 18, 1987 which was replied by the Defendant on January 4, 1988 to which a rejoinder was given by the Plaintiff on January 28, 1988.
Fact	Since there was no compliance by the Defendant, a further notice by way of reminder was served upon the Defendant on March 17, 1988 and the suit was thereafter filed.
RatioOfTheDecision	Accordingly there is no delay on the part of the Plaintiff in approaching this Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even assuming that there has been some delay on the part of the Plaintiff in approaching this C ourt as contended by the Defendant, firstly the question of delay has to be balanced against the likelihood of the Plaintiff's ultimately succeeding in the action and where the strength of the Plaintiffs prima facie case is very strong, the Plaintiff's delay in filing the action would not disentitle the Plaintiff to relief and it would be right to grant rather than to withhold the interlocutory injunction prayed for.
RatioOfTheDecision	As stated above, in my opinion, the Plaintiff has made out a very strong prima facie case for grant of interlocutory relief and under the circumstances I hold that delay, if any, on the part of the Plaintiff in filing the suit does not disentitle it to interlocutory relief on this Motion.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover, as held by <ORG> at Delhi in the case of <CITATION_315836> .
RatioOfTheDecision	, even where there is an honest concurrent user by the Defendant then inordinate delay or laches may defeat the claim of damages or rendition of accounts but the relief of injunction should not be refused.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is so because it is in  the interest of general public, which is the third party in such cases, which has to be kept in mind.
Precedent	30.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the circumstances the Notice of Motion is made absolute in terms of prayers (a) and (b).
RulingByPresentCourt	The defendant is directed to pay the cqsts of the Notice of Motion to the Plaintiff.
RulingByPresentCourt	31.
RulingByPresentCourt	Order accordingly.
