Fact	PETITIONER: THE STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANOTHER Vs. RESPONDENT: <ORG>, AHMEDABAD, ETC.
Argument	DATE OF JUDGMENT26/03/1974 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> RAY, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, A. CITATION: 1974 AIR 1300 1974 SCR (3) 760 1974 SCC (4) 656 CITATOR INFO : R 1975 SC 511 (17) RF 1975 SC 583 (37,39) F 1975 SC 594 (8) F 1975 SC1030 (11) RF 1976 SC 490 (22,23) R 1978 SC 803 (30) RF 1978 SC1296 (49) RF 1979 SC 25 (35,40) E&R 1979 SC 478 (72,122,133,134) R 1980 SC 738 (9) R 1981 SC1829 (35) D 1982 SC 149 (972) R 1984 SC1130 (46) R 1989 SC 100 (31) R 1990 SC1637 (21) ACT: Constitution of India, 1950, Art.
Argument	13-- Legislation void in relation to citizens as violating Art.
Argument	19-- If corporation, a non-citizen, can contend that law is non-est.
Statute	Bombay Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1953, as amended by Gujarat Amendment Act, 1961 s. 2(4)--'Establishment' definition of--If violates Art.
Statute	14.
Statute	HEADNOTE: After the State of Bombay was bifurcated the legislature of the  State of Gujarat enacted the Bombay Labour Welfare Fund (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act , 1961, making various amendments in the Bombay Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1953.
Statute	The 1953-Act was passed with a view to provide for the constitution of a fund for financing activities for promoting the welfare of labour in the State of Bombay.
Statute	Section 3 as amended, provides that <ORG> shall constitute a fund called <ORG> and that the fund shall consist of.
Fact	among other things, all unpaid accumulations.
Argument	Sec.
Argument	2(10) defines unpaid accumulations as meaning all payments due to the employees but not made to them within a period of three years from the date on which they became due whether before or after the commencement of the Act including wages and gratuity legally payable.
Argument	Sec.
Argument	6A(1) provides that unpaid accumulations shall be deemed to be abandoned property and that the <ORG>, constituted under the Act, shall take them over.
Argument	As soon as the <ORG> takes over the unpaid accumulations, notic e as provided in the section, will have to be published and claims invited.
Statute	Sub- section 3 to 6 provide for notice and sub-ss.
Statute	7 to 11 lay down the machinery for adjudication of claims which might be received in response to the notice.
Fact	It is only if no claim is made for a period of four years from the date of the, publication of the first notice, or if a claim is made but rejected wholly or in part, that the <ORG> appropriates the unpaid accumulation, as bona vacantia.
Statute	Section 2(4) of the Act defines 'establishment' and the definition includes factories, tramway or motor omnibus services and any establishment carrying government establishments carrying on business or trade.
RulingByLowerCourt	Demand for the payment ofthe unpaid accumulations having been made the respondents filed petitions inthe <ORG> challenging various provisions of the Act and the <ORG> held that s. 3(1) , in so far as it relates to unpaid accumulations specified ins.
RulingByLowerCourt	3 (2) (b), 3 (4) and 6 A of the Act , and rules 3 and 4 of the rules made thereun der are unconstitutional and void on the grounds : (i) that the impugned provisions violated the fundamental rights of citizen-employers and employees under Art.
Argument	19(1)(f) and therefore were void under Art.
Argument	13(2) and hence there was no law and the demands were thus without the authority of law; and (2) that discrimination was writ large in the definition of 'establishment'.
Argument	Allowing the appeal to this <ORG>, HELD : (1)(a) Unpaid accumulations represent the obligations of the employers to the employees and they are the property of the employees.
Argument	In other words, what is being treated as abandoned property under 6A is the obligation to the employees owed by the employers and which is property from the standpoint of the employees.
Argument	[771 A-B] 761 (b) At common law, abandoned personal property could not be the subject of escheat.
Argument	It could only be appropriated as bona vacantia.
Argument	Under the Act , though unpaid accumulations are deemed to be abandoned property under s. 6A(1) they are appropriated as bona vacantia only aft er claims are invited and disposed of.
Argument	[770 G-771A] (c) If unpaid accumulations are not claimed within a total period of 7 years the inactivity on the part of the employees would furnish adequate basis for the administration by the <ORG> of the unasserted claims or demands.
Argument	It cannot be said that the period of 7 years allowed to the employees for the purpose of claiming unpaid accumulations is an unreasonably short one which will result in the infringement of any constitutional rights of the employees.
Argument	[771E] (d) There is no reason to think that the <ORG> will be.
Argument	in fact less able or less willing to pay the amounts when it has taken them over.
Argument	[771E-F] (e) It cannot also be assumed that the mere substitution of the <ORG> as the debtor will deprive the employees of their property or impose on them any unconstitutional burden.
Argument	[771F] (f) Since the employers are the debtors of the employees, they can interpose noobjection if the <ORG> is lawfully entitled to demand the payment, for in thatcase payment of the de bt to the <ORG> under the statute releases the employers of their liability to the employees.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the moneys representing the unpaid accumulations are paid to the <ORG> the liability of the employers to make payment to the employees in, respect of their claims against the employers would be discharged to the extent of the amount paid to the <ORG>, and on such liability being transferred to the <ORG>, the debts or claims to that extent cannot thereafter be enforced against the employers.
RatioOfTheDecision	[771D, G] (g) As regards notice, all persons having property located within a state and subject to its dominion must take note of its statutes affecting control and disposition of such property and the procedure prescribed for those purposes.
RatioOfTheDecision	The various modes of notice prescribed in s. 6A are sufficient to give reasonable information to the employees to come forward and claim the amount if they really want to do so.
Argument	[771G-H] In the absence of a showing of injury, actual or threatened, there could be no constitutional argumen t. therefore, against the taking over of the unpaid accumulations by the <ORG>.
Argument	[771F-G] (2) But assuming that the impugned provisions abridge the fundamental rights of citizen-employers or citizen-employees under Art.
Argument	19(1)(f ), the respondent, a corporation and hence a non-citizen employer, could not claim (i) that the law was void as against non-citizen employers also under Art.
Argument	13(2 ), and (ii) that since a void law is a nullity, the privation of its property was without the authority of law.
Argument	[772D] (a) It is settled that a <ORG> is not a citizen for the purposes of Art.
Argument	19 and has, therefore no fundamental right under that Article.
Precedent	[772E] <CITATION_538117> ,  6 S.C.R.
Precedent	885, R. C. Cooper v. Union of India,  2 S.C.R.
Precedent	530 and <ORG>, etc.
Argument	v. <ORG>  2 S.C.C.
Argument	788, followed.
Argument	(b) Courts should not adjudge on the constitutionality of a statute except when they are called upon to do so when legal rights of the litigants are in actual controversy; and as part of this rule, i s the principle that one to whom the application of a statute is constitutional will not be heard to attack the statute on the ground that, it must also be taken as applying to other persons to whom or situations in which, its application may be unconstitutional.
Argument	[771 H-772B] United States v. <NAME>, 362 U.S. 17, referred to.
Argument	762 (c) The same scheme permeates both the sub-articles of Art.
Argument	13 , namely, to make the law void in Art.
Argument	13(1) to the extent of the inconsistency with the fundamental rights, and in Art.
Argument	13(2) to the extent of the contravention of those rights.
Argument	In other words, the voidness is not in rein but to the extent only of inconsistency or contravention as the case may be, of the rights conferred under Part III.
Precedent	Therefore, when Art.
Precedent	13(2) uses the expression 'void, it can only mean void as against persons whose fundamental rights are taken away or abridged by a law.
Precedent	[777G-H] (d) If a pre-constitutional law which takes away or abridges the rights under Art.
Precedent	19 could remain operative even after the  Constitution came into force as regards non-citizens, there is no reason why a post-constitutional law which takes away or abridges them should not be operative as respects noncitizens, if the meaning of the word 'void' in Art.
Precedent	13(1) is the same as its meaning in Art.
Precedent	13(2).
Precedent	The reason why a pre-constitutional law remains ,operative as against non- citizens is that it is void only to the extent of its in- consistency with the rights conferred under Art.
Precedent	19 and that its voidness is, therefore, confined to citizens, as, ex hypothesi the law became inconsistent with their fundamental rights alone.
Precedent	Art.
Precedent	13(2) is an injunction to the <ORG> not to pass any law which takes away or abridges the fundamental rights conferred by Part III and the consequence of the contravention of the injunction is that the, law would be void to the extent of the contravention.
Precedent	The expression 'to the extent of the contravention' in the sub-article can only mean to the extent of the contravention of the rights conferred under that Part.
Precedent	Rights always inhere in some person whether natural or juridical.
Precedent	Just as a pre- constitutional law taking away or abridging the fundamental rights under Art.
Precedent	19 remains operative after the Constitution came into force as respects of noncitizens as it is not inconsistent that their fundamental rights so also a postconstitutional law, offending Art, 19, remains operative as against non-citizens as it is not in contravention of any of their fundamental rights.
Precedent	The law might be still-born so far as the persons, entities or denominations whose fundamental rights are taken away or abridged; but there is no reason why the law should he void or still-born as against those who have no fundamental rights.
Precedent	777B-D, E-G, H-778A] (e) It could not be said that the expression 'to the extent of the contravention' mean only that part of the law which contravenes the fundamental right would alone be void and not the other parts which do not so contravene.
Precedent	The expression 'any law' occurring in the latter part of the sub-articl e must necessarily refer to the same expression, in the former part and, therefore, the Constitution-makers have already made it clear that the law that would be void is only the law which contravenes the fundamental rights conferred by Part III; and, so, the phrase 'to the extent of the contravention' can mean only to the extent of the contravention of the rights conferred.
Precedent	When it is seen that the latter part of the sub-article is concerned with the effect of the violation of the injunction contained in the former part, the words 'to the extent of the contravention' can only refer to the rights conferred under Part III ind denote only the compass of voidness with respect to persons or entities resulting from the contravention of the rights conferred upon them, There is no reason why the Constitution-makers wanted to state that the other sections which did not violate the fundamental rights would not be void.
Precedent	Besides.
Precedent	any such categorical statement would be wrong as the other sections might be void if they a re inseparably knitted to the void one.
Precedent	[778A-G] (f) Assuming that this Court has rejected the distinction between legislative incapacity arising from lack of power under the relevant legislative entry and that arising from a check upon legislative power on account of constitutional provisions like fundamental rights, it does not follow that if the law enacted by the legislature having no capacity in the former sense would be void in rem a law passed by a legislature having no legislative capacity in the latter sense should also be void in rem, because : [778G-H] (i) If on a textual reading of Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	13 the conclusion reached namely, that a law passed by a legislature having no legislative capacity in the latter sense 763 is only void qua those persons whose fundamental rights are taken away or abridged, is the only reasonable one, there is no need to consider whether that.
RatioOfTheDecision	conclusion could not be arrived at except on the basis of such a distinction;, and (ii) Further, there is nothing strange in the notion of  a legislature having no inherent legislative capacity or power to take away or abridge by law the: fundamental rights conferred on citizens and yet having legislative power to pass the same law in respect of non-citizens who have no such fundamental rights to be taken away or abridged.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the legislative incapacity subjectwise with reference to Arts.
RatioOfTheDecision	245 and 246 in this context would be the taking away or abridging by law the fundamental rights under Art.
Precedent	19 of citizens.
Precedent	[779A-E] <NAME> v. <ORG> of A.P.
Precedent	(1958) S.C.R.
Precedent	1422, referred.
Precedent	to.
Precedent	(g) The expression "that <ORG> shall not make any law in Art.
Precedent	13(2) is no doubt a clear mandate of the fundamental law of the land and, therefore, it is case of total incapacity and total want of power.
Precedent	But the mandate is that the <ORG> shall not make any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part III.
Precedent	If no rights are conferred under Part III upon a person, or, if rights are conferred, but they are not taken away or abridged by  law there could not be incapacity of the legislature to make a law.
Precedent	If a law is otherwise good and does not contravene any of their fundamental rights, noncitizens cannot take advantage of the voidness of the law for the reason, that it contravenes the fundamental rights of citizens and claim that there is no law at ail.
Precedent	Such a proposition would not violate any principle of equality before the law, because, citizens and non-citizens are not similarly situated as citizens have certain fundamental rights which non-citizens have not.
Precedent	[779 B-D; 780 <CITATION_656658> ,  S.C.R.
Precedent	228, <CITATION_1683423> .
Precedent	I S.C.R.
Precedent	613, <CITATION_762155> .
Precedent	2 S.C.R.
Precedent	589, <CITATION_449556> .,  S.C.R.
Precedent	1422.
Precedent	<CITATION_570453> ,.
Precedent	Supp.
Precedent	2 S. C. R. 8, <NAME> case  Supp.
Precedent	I S. C. R. 912 and <CITATION_1878241> ,  2 S.C.C.
Precedent	893, referred to.
Precedent	(h) Therefore, even assuming that under Art.
Precedent	226 of the Constitution the respondent was entitled to move <ORG> and seek a remedy for infringement of its ordinary right to property,  the impugned provisions could not be treated as non-est.
RatioOfTheDecision	and the respondent cannot take the plea that his rights to property are being taken away or abridged without the authority of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	[772 H-773 A] (3) The definition of 'establishment' in S. 2(4) does not violate Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	14 and does not make the impugned provisions void.
RatioOfTheDecision	(a) The equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	But courts have resolved the contradictory demands of legislative specialisation and constitutional generality by the doctrine of reasonable classification.
RatioOfTheDecision	[782 B-C] (b) A reasonable classification is one which includes all who are similarly situated, and none who are not, with respect to the purpose of the law [782 C-D] (c) A classification is under-inclusive when all who are included in the class are tainted with the mischief, but there are others also tainted whom the, classification does not include.
RatioOfTheDecision	A classification is over-inclusive when it includes not only those who are similarly situated with respect  to the purpose but also others who are not so situated.
RatioOfTheDecision	[782 D-F] (d) The <ORG> has recognised the very real difficulties under which legislatures operate difficulties arising out of both the nature of the legislative process and of the society which legislation attempts perennially to reshape and it has refused to strike down indiscriminately all legislation embodying- 764 classificatory inequality like the one here under consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	The legislature cannot be required to impose upon administrative agencies tasks which cannot be carried out or which must be carried out on a large scale at a single stroke.
RatioOfTheDecision	The piecemeal approach to a general problem permitted by under-inclusive classifications is justified especially when it is considered that legislation dealing with such problems is usually an experimental matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is impossible to tell how successful a particular approach may be, what dislocation may occur, what evasions may develop or what new evils might be generated in the attempt.
RatioOfTheDecision	A legislation may  take one step at a time addressing itself to the Phase of the problem which seems most acute to the legislative mind.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, a legislature might select only one phase of one field for application of a remedy.
RatioOfTheDecision	Once an objective is decided to be within the legislative competence the working out of classification should not be impeded by judicial negatives.
RatioOfTheDecision	The courts attitude cannot be that the state either has to regulate all businesses or even all related businesses and in the same way, or not at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	The court must be aware of its own remoteness and lack of familiarity with the local problems.
RatioOfTheDecision	Classification is dependent on the particular needs and specific difficulties of the community which are beyond the easy ken of the court, and which the legislature alone was competent to make.
RatioOfTheDecision	Consequently, lacking the capacity to inform itself fully about the peculiarities of a particular local situation, a court should hesitate to dub the legislative classification as irrational.
RatioOfTheDecision	[782 H-783 G;784 A-D; 786 G-H; 7 87 A] Missouri, <ORG> v. <NAME>,  194 U.S.267, 269, <ORG> v. <NAME> , 300 U.S. 379, 400, <ORG> v. <ORG> 366, U.S. 582, 592, <ORG> v. <ORG>, 56 L.Ed.
RatioOfTheDecision	175, 180, <ORG> v. Texas 310 U.S. 141 and <NAME> v. <ORG>, 201.
Fact	U.S. 495, referred to.
Fact	(e) The question whether, under Art.
Fact	14 , a classification is reasonable or unreasonable must, in the ultimate analysis depend upon the judicial approach to the problem.
Fact	The more complicated society becomes, the greater the diversity of its problems and the more does legislation direct itself to the diversities.
Fact	In the utilities, tax and economic regulation cases, there are good reasons for judicial self- restraint if not official deference to legislative judgment.
Precedent	The <ORG> have only the power to destroy but not to reconstruct.
Precedent	When to this are added the complexity of economic regulation, the uncertainty, the liability to error, the bewildering conflict of the experts, and the number of tim es the judges have been overruled by events self limitation can be seen to be the path to judicial wisdom and institutional prestige and stability.
Precedent	[784 F-785 D] (f) Laws regulating economic activity should be viewed differently from laws which touch and concern freedom of speech and religion, voting procreation, rights with respect to criminal procedure etc.
Precedent	Judicial deference to legislature in instances of economic regulation is explained by the argument that rationality of a classification depends upon local conditions about which local legislative or administrative bodies would be better informed than a court.
Precedent	[784 D-E; 786 A] (g) In the present case, the purpose of the Act is to get unpaid accumulations for utilising them.
Precedent	for the welfare of labour in general.
Precedent	It is from the factories that the greatest amount of unpaid accumulations could be collected and since the factories are bound to maintain records from which the amount of unpaid accumulations could be easily ascertained the legislature brought all  the factories within the definition of 'establishment'.
Precedent	It then addressed itself to other establishments but thought that establishments employing less than 50 persons need not be brought within the purview of the definition as unpaid accumulations in those establishments would be less and might not be sufficient to meet the administrative expenses of collection and as many of them might not be maintaining records from which the amount of unpaid accumulations could be ascertained.
Precedent	Administrative convenience in the collection of unpaid accumulations is a factor to be taken into account in adjudging whether the classification is reasonable.
Precedent	The reason why government establishments other than factories were not included in the definition is that there are hardly any establishments run by <ORG> [783 F-G; 785E-H; 786 A-B] (h) The justification for including tramways and motor omnibuses within the purview of the definition is that the legislature of the State of Bombay, when it 765 enacte d the Act in 1953, must have had reason to think that unpaid accumulations in these concerns would be large, because, they usually employed a. large amount of labour force' and they were bound to keep records of the wages earned and paid.
Precedent	[786 C-D] (i) Whether a court can remove the unreasonablenss of a classification when it is under-inclusive by extending the ambit of the legislation to cover the class omitted to be included, or by applying the doctrine of severability delete a clause which makes a classification over-inclusive, are matters on which it is not necessary to express any final opinion because the inclusion of tramway or motor omnibus service in the definition of 'establishment' does not make the classification unreasonable having regard to the purpose of the legislation.
Fact	[788 A-C] JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeals Nos.
Fact	1931 to 1933/68.
Fact	From the, Judgment and Order dated the 19th/20th/21st day of July 1965 of <ORG> at Ahmedabad in Special Civil Application  Nos.
Fact	579 to 581 of 1963.
Precedent	Civil Appeal No.
Precedent	2271 of 1968.
Precedent	From the judgment and order dated the 19th/20th/21st day of July 1965, of <ORG> at Ahmedabad in Special Civil Application No.
Precedent	836 of 1962.
Precedent	Civil Appeals Nos.
Precedent	492 to 512 of 1969.
Argument	From the Judgment and order dated the 21st July, 1965 of <ORG> at Ahmedabad in Special Civil Application Nos.
Fact	1069/62, 20, 21, 40, 49, 476, 699, 574 of 1963, 1070 to 1075 of 1962, 1086 to 1089 of 1962, 516, 727 and 728 of 1963.
Fact	Civil Appeals Nos.
Fact	1114 to 1129 of 1969.
Fact	From the judgment and order dated the 21st July, 1965 of <ORG> in Special Civil Applications Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	458 to 473 of 1963.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for the appellants.
RatioOfTheDecision	(In all the appeals).
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for respondent no.
RatioOfTheDecision	I (in C. As.
RatioOfTheDecision	1115, 1118, 1125/ 69).
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for respondent no.
RatioOfTheDecision	I (in C.A.
RatioOfTheDecision	1931/68).
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, respondent no.
RatioOfTheDecision	I (in C. As.
Precedent	1931-33/68, 492-494, 497, 499, 500-502, 504-507, 511-512/69, 1117, 1122, 1124 and 1126-27/69).
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for respondent no.
Precedent	I (in C.A.
Precedent	2271/68).
Precedent	<NAME> and <NAME>, for respondent no.
Precedent	I (In C.As.
Precedent	1 1 14, 1116,1119 and 1128/69).
Precedent	<NAME> and <NAME>, for intervener.
Precedent	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, J.-The facts are similar in all these cases.
RulingByPresentCourt	We propose to deal with Civil Appeal No.
Fact	2271 of 1968.
Fact	The decision there will dispose of the other appeals.
Fact	The first respondent, a company registered under the Companies Act , filed a Writ petition in <ORG> of Gujarat.
Fact	In that petition it impugned the provisions of sections 3, 6A and 7 of the Bombay Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1953 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and s. 13 of the Bombay Labour Welfare Fund (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act , 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the First  Amendment Act) and rules 3 and 4 of the Bombay Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1953 (hereinafter referred to as tie Rules) as unconstitutional and prayed for the issue of a writ in the nature of mandamus or other appropriate writ or direction against the respondents in the writ petition to desist from enforcing the direction in the I notice dated August 2, 1962 of respondent No.
Fact	3 to the writ petition requiring the petitioner-1st respondent to pay the unpaid accumulations specified therein.
Fact	<ORG> held that s. 3 (1) of the Act in so far as it relates to unpaid accumulations specified in s. 3 (2) (b), s. 3 (4) and s. 6A of the Act and rules 3 and 4 of the Rules was unconstitutional and void.
Fact	In order to appreciate the controversy, it is necessary to state the background of the amendment made by <ORG> in the Act.
Statute	The Act was passed by the legislature of the then State of Bombay in 1953 with a view to provide for the constitution of a fund for financing the activities for promoting the  welfare of labour in the State of Bombay.
Statute	Section 2(10) of the Act defined "unpaid accumlation" as meaning all payments due to the employees but not made to .them within a period of three years from the date on which they became due, whether before or after the commencement of the Act, including the wages and gratuity legally payable, but not including the amount of contribution, if any, paid by any employer to a Provident Fund established under the Employees' Provident Fund Act , 1952.
Statute	Section 3(1) provided that <ORG> shall constitute a fund called <ORG> and that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the sums specified in subsection (2) shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (4) and sec- tion 6A be paid in to the fund.
Fact	Clause (b) of sub-section (2) of s. 3 provided that the Fund shall consist of "all unpaid accumulations".
Fact	Section 7(1) provided that the fund shall vest in and be applied by <ORG> subject to th e provisions and for the purposes of the Act.
Fact	Section 19 gave power to <ORG> to make rules and in the exercise of that power, <ORG> made the Rules.
Fact	Rules 3 and 4 concerned the machinery for enforcing the provisions of the Act in regard to fines and unpaid accumulations.
Fact	<CITATION_60443377> (1) this <ORG> held that the provisions of sections 3(1) and 3(2)(b) were invalid on the ground that they violated the fundamental right of the employer under article 19(1)(f).
RulingByLowerCourt	The reasoning of the <ORG> was that the effect of the relevant provisions of the Act was to transfer to the Board the debts due by the employer to the employees free from the bar of limitation without discharging the employer from his liability to the employees and that s.3(1) therefore operated to take away the moneys of the employer without releasing him from his liability to the employees.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> also (1)  S.C.R.
RulingByLowerCourt	1122 found that there was no machinery provided for adjudication of the claim of the employees when th e amounts were required to be paid to the fund.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> sought-to justify the provisions of the Act as one relating to abandoned property and, therefore, by their very nature, they could not be held to violate the rights of any person either under article 19(1) (f) or article, 31(2).
RulingByLowerCourt	The Court did not accept the contention of the <ORG> but held that the purpose of a legislation with respect to abandoned property being in the first instance to safeguard the property for the benefit of the true owners and the <ORG> taking it over only in the absence of such claims, the law which vests the property absolutely in the <ORG> without regard to the claims of the true owners cannot be considered as one relating to abandoned property.
RulingByLowerCourt	On May 1, 1960, the <ORG> of Bombay was bifurcated into the <ORG>s of Maharashtra and Gujarat.
RulingByLowerCourt	The legislature of Gujarat thereafter enacted to First Amendment Act making various amendments in the Act, some of them with retrospective effect.
Precedent	The First Amendment Act was intended to rem edy the defects pointed out in the decision of this Court in the Bombay Dyeing Case(1).
Precedent	The preamble to the First Amendment Act recites that "it is expedient to constitute a Fund for the financing of activities to promote welfare of labour in the State of Gujarat, for conducting such activities and for certain other purposes".
Statute	Section 2(2) defines 'employee'.
Statute	Section 2(3) defines 'employer' as any person who employs either directly or through another person either on behalf of himself or any other person, one or more employees in an establishment and includes certain other persons.
Statute	Section 2(4) defines 'establishment' and that sub-section as amended reads :-  "2(4) 'Establishment' means  (i) A factory;  (ii) A Tramway or motor omnibus service; and  (iii) Any establishment including a society registered under the Societies Registration Act , 1960, and a charitable or other trust, whether registered under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950, or not, which carries on any business or trade or any work in connectio n with or ancillary thereto and which employs or on any working day during the preceding twelve months employed more than fifty persons; but does not include an establishment (not being a factory) of the <ORG> or any State Government."
Statute	Sub-section (10) of s. 2 defines 'unpaid accumulations' "unpaid accumulations' means all payments due to the employees but not made to them within a period of three years from the date on which they became due whether before or after the commencement of this Act including the wages and gratuity legally payable but not including the amount of contribution if any, paid by an employer to a (1)  S.C.R.
Statute	1122.
Statute	768  provident fund established under the Employees' Provident Funds Act 1952".
Statute	Section 3 is retrospectively amended and the amended section it its material part provides that <ORG> shall constitute a fund called <ORG> and that the Fund shall consist of, among other things, all unpaid accumulations.
Statute	It provides that the sums specified shall  be collected by such agencies and in such manner and the accounts of the fund shall be maintained and audited in such manner as may be prescribed.
Statute	The section further provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force or any contract or instrument, all unpaid accumulations shall be collected by such agencies and in such manner as may be prescribed and be paid in the first instance to the <ORG> which shalt keep a separate account therefor until claims thereto have been decided in the manner provided in s.6A.
Statute	Section 6A is a new section introduced retrospectively in the Act and sub-section (1) and (2) of that section state that all unpaid accumulations shall be deemed to be abandoned property and that any unpaid accumulations paid to the <ORG> in accordance with the Provisions of s.3 shall, on such payment, discharge an employer of the liability to make payment to an employee in respect thereof, but to the extent only of the amount paid to the <ORG> and 'that the liability  to make payment to the employee to the extent aforesaid shall, subject to the other provisions of the section, be, deemed to be transferred to the <ORG>.
Statute	Sub-section (3) provides that as soon as possible after any unpaid accumulation is paid to the <ORG>, the <ORG> shall, by a, public notice, call upon interested employees to submit to the <ORG> their claims for any pay- ment due to them.
Statute	Sub-section (4) provides that such public notice shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed and that it shall be affixed on the notice board or in its absence on a conspicuous part of the premises, of each establishment in which the unpaid accumulations were earned and shall be published in <ORG> and also in any two newspapers in the language commonly understood in the area in which such establishment is situated, or in such other manner as may be- prescribed, regard being had to the amount of the claim.
Statute	Sub-section (5)states that after the notice is first affixed and published under sub-section (4) i t shall be again affixed and published from time to time for a period of three years from the date on which it was first affixed and published, in the manner provided in that subsection in the months of June and December each year.
Statute	Sub-section (6) states that a certificate of the <ORG> to the effect that the provisions of sub-section (4) and (5) were complied with shall be conclusive evidence thereof Sub- section (7) provides that any claim received whether in answer to the notice or otherwise within a period of four years from the date of the first publication of the notice in respect of such claim, shall be transferred by the <ORG> to the authority appointed under s. 15 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, having jurisdiction in the area in which the factory or establishment is situated, and the <ORG> shall proceed to adjudicate upon and decide such claim and that in bearing such claim the <ORG> shall have the powers conferred by and shall follow the procedure (in so far as it is applicable) followed  in giving effect to the provisions of that Act.
Statute	Sub-section (8) states that if in deciding any claim under sub-section (7), the <ORG> allows the whole or part of such claim, it shall declare that the unpaid accumulation in relation to which the claim is made shall, to the, extent to which the claim is allowed ceases to be abandoned property and shall order the <ORG> to pay to the claimant the amount of the claim ,as allowed by it and the <ORG> shall make payment accordingly : provided that the <ORG> shall not be liable to pay any sum in excess of that paid under sub-section (4) of s.3 to the <ORG> as unpaid accumulations, in respect of the claim.
Statute	Sub-section (9) provides for an appeal against the decision rejecting any claim.
Statute	Sub-section (10) provides that the <ORG> shall comply with any order made in appeal.
Statute	Sub-section (11) makes the decision in appeal final and conclusive as to the right to receive payment, the liability of the <ORG> to pay and also as to the amount, if any : and sub-section (12) state s that if no claim is made within the time specified in sub-section (7) or a claim or part thereof has been rejected, then the unpaid accumulations in respect of such claim shall accrue to and vest in the <ORG> as bona vacantia and shall thereafter without further assurance be deemed to be transferred to and form part of the <ORG>.
Statute	Section 7(1) provides that the, <ORG> shall vest in and be held and applied by the <ORG> as Trustees subject to the provisions and for the purposes of the Act and the moneys in the <ORG> shall be utilized by the <ORG> to defray the cost of carrying out measures which may be specified by the <ORG> Government from time to time to promote the welfare of labour and of their dependents.
Statute	Sub-section (2) of s.7 specifies various measures for the benefit of employees in general on which the moneys in the <ORG> may be expended by the <ORG>.
Statute	Section 11 provides for the appointment of an officer called the Welfare Commissioner and defines his powers and duties.
Statute	Section 19 confers rule-making pow er on <ORG>.
Statute	Section 22 empowers <ORG> by notification in the official gazette to exempt any class of establishment from all or any of the provisions of the Act subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification.
Statute	During the pendency of the writ petition before <ORG>, <ORG> passed the Bombay Labour Welfare Fund (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1962 on February 5, 1963 (hereinafter referred to as the Second Amendment Act ) introducing subsection (13) in s.6A with retrospective effect from the date of commencement of the Act.
Statute	That sub- section provides as follows "(13) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall apply to unpaid accumulations not already paid to the <ORG>;  (a) in respect of which no separate accounts have been maintained so that the unpaid claims of employees are not traceable, or  (b) which are proved to have been spent before the sixth day of December, 1961, and accordingly such unpaid accumulations shall not be li able to be collected and paid under sub-section (4) of section 3 ".
Statute	<ORG>, in the exercise of its rule-making power under s. 19 amended the Rules by amending rule 3 and adding a new rule 3A setting out the particulars to be contained in the public notice issued under s. 6A(3) .
Argument	The first respondent raised several contentions before <ORG>, but the Court rejected all except two of them and they were : (1) that the impugned provisions violated the fundamental right of citizen-employers and employees under article 19(1) (f) and, therefore, the provisions were void under article 13(2) of the Constitution and hence there was no law, and so, the notice issued by the Welfare Com- missioner was without the authority of law; and (2) that discrimination was writ large in the definition of 'establishment' in s. 2(4) and since the definition permeates through every part of the impunged provisions and is an integral part of the impugned provisions, the impugned provisions were violative of article  14 and were void.
Fact	So, the two questions in this appeal are, whether the first respondent was competent to challenge the validity of the impugned provisions on the basis that they violated the fundamental right under article 19(1) (f) of citizen- employers or employees and thus show that the law was void and non-existent and, therefore, the action taken against it was bad; and whether the definition of 'establishment' in s. 2(4) violated the fundamental right of the respondent under article 14 and the impugned provisions were void for that reason.
Fact	Before adverting to these questions, it is necessary to see what the Act, after it was amended, has purported to do.
Statute	By s. 6A(1) it was declared that unpaid accumulations shall be deemed to be abandoned property and that the <ORG> shall taken them over.
Statute	As soon as the <ORG> takes over the unpaid accumulations treating them as abandoned property, notice as provided in s. 6A will have to be published and claims invited.
Statute	Sub-sections (3) to (6) of s. 6A provide for a p ublic notice calling upon interested employees to submit to the <ORG> their claims for any payment due to them and subsections (7) to (I 1) of s. 6A lay down the machinery for adjudication of claims which might be received in pursuance to the public notice.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is only if no claim is made for a period of 4 years from the date of the publication of the first notice, or, if a claim is made but rejected wholly or in part, that the <ORG> appropriates the unpaid accumulations as bona vacantia.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not as if unpaid accumulations become bona vacantia on the expiration of three years.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are, no doubt, deemed to be abandoned property under s. 6A(1) , but they are not appropriated as bona vacantia until after claims are invited in pursuance to public notice and disposed of.
RatioOfTheDecision	At common law, abandoned personal property could not be the subject of ascheat.
Precedent	It could only be appropriated by the sovereign as bona vacantia (see Holdsworth's History of English Law, 2nd ed., vol.
Precedent	7, pp.
RatioOfTheDecision	495-6).
RatioOfTheDecision	The Sovereign has a prerogati ve right to appropriate bona vacantia.
RatioOfTheDecision	And abandoned property can be appropriated by the Sovereign as bona vacantia.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unpaid accumulations represent the obligation of the 'employers' to the 'employees' and they are the property of the employees.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, what is being treated as abandoned property is the obligation to the employees owed by the employers and which is property from the standpoint of the employees.
RatioOfTheDecision	No doubt, when we look at the scheme of the legislation from a practical point of view, what is being treated as abandoned property is the money which the employees are entitled to get from the employers and what the <ORG> takes over is the obligation of the employers to pay the amount due to the employees in consideration of the moneys paid by the employers to the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG>, after taking the money, becomes liable to make the payment to the employees to the extent of the amount received.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether the liability assumed by the <ORG> to the employees is an altogether new liability or the old  liability of the employers is more a matter of academic interest than of practical consequence.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the moneys representing the unpaid accumulations are paid to the <ORG>, the liability of the employers to make payment to the employees in respect of their claims against the employers would be discharged to the extent of the amount paid to the <ORG> and on such liability being transferred to the <ORG>, the debts or claims to that extent cannot thereafter be enforced against the employer.
RatioOfTheDecision	We think that if unpaid accumulations are not claimed within a total period of 7 years, the inactivity on the part of the employees would furnish adequate basis for the administration by <ORG> of the unasserted claims or demands.
RatioOfTheDecision	We cannot say that the period of 7 years allowed to the employees for the purpose of claiming unpaid accumulations is an unreasonably short one which will result in the infringement of any constitutional rights of the employees.
RatioOfTheDecision	And, in the absence of some persuasive reason, which is lacking here,  we see no reason to think that the <ORG> will be, in fact, less able or less willing to pay- the amounts when it has taken them over.
RatioOfTheDecision	We cannot also assume that the mere substitution of the <ORG> as the debtor will deprive the employees of their property or impose on them any unconstitutional burden.
RatioOfTheDecision	And, in the absence of a showing of injury, actual or threatened, there can be no constitutional argument against the taking over of the unpaid accumulations by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since the employers are the debtors of the employees, they can interpose no objection if the <ORG> is lawfully entitled to demand the payment, for, in that case, payment of the debt to the <ORG> under the statute releases the employers of their liability to the employees.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards notice, we are of the view that all persons having property located within a state and subject to its dominion must take note of its statutes affecting control and disposition of such property and the procedure prescribed for these, purposes.
RatioOfTheDecision	The various modes of no tice prescribed in s. 6A are sufficient to give reasonable information to the employees to come forward and claim the amount if they really want to do so.
RatioOfTheDecision	Be that as it may, we do not, however, think it necessary to consider whether <ORG> was right in its view that the impugned pro-  772  visions violated the fundamental rights of the citizen- employers or employees, for, it is a wise tradition with courts that they will not adjudge on the constitutionality of a statute except when they are called upon to do so when legal rights of the litigants are in actual controversy and as part of this rule is the principle that one to whom the application of a statute in constitutional will not be heard to attack the statute on the ground that it must also be taken as applying to other persons or other situations in which its application might be unconstitutional [see United States v. Rainas(1)].
RatioOfTheDecision	"A person ordinarily is precluded from challenging the constitutionality of governmental action by invoking the rig hts of others and it is not sufficient that the statute or administrative regulation is unconstitutional as to other persons or classes of persons; it must affirmatively appear that the person attacking the statute comes within the class of persons affected by it."
Precedent	(see Corpus Juris Secundum, vol.
Precedent	16, pp.
Precedent	236-  7).
RatioOfTheDecision	We, however, proceed on the assumption that the impugned provisions abridge the fundamental right of citizen- employers and citizen-employees under article 19(1) (f) in order to decide the further question and that is, whether, on that assumption, the first respondent could claim that the law was void as against the non-citizen employers or employees under article 13 (2) and further contend that the non-citizen employers have been deprived of their property without the authority of law, as, ex hypothesi a void law is a nullity.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is settled by the decisions of this <ORG> that a <ORG> is not a citizen for the purposes of article 19 and has, therefore, no fundamental right under that articl e (see <CITATION_538117> <ORG> v. State of Bihar and others (2), <ORG> v. <ORG>).
RatioOfTheDecision	The same view was taken in <ORG>, etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	v. <ORG> and Others(4)].
RatioOfTheDecision	As already stated, <ORG> found that the impugned provisions, in so far as they abridged the fundamental rights of the citizen-employers and employees under article 19(1) (f) were void under article 13(2) and even if the respondent-company had no fundamental right under article 19(1) (f ), it had the ordinary right to hold and dispose of its property, and that the right cannot be taken away or even affected except under the authority of a law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Expressed in another way, the reasoning of the <ORG> was that since the impugned provisions became void as they abridged the fundamental right under article 19(1) (f) of the citizen-employers and employees the law was void and non-est, and therefore, the first respondent was entitled to challenge the notice issued by the Welfare Commissioner demanding the u npaid accumulation as unauthorized by any law.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first respondent, no doubt, has the ordinary right of every person in the country to hold and dispose of property and that right, if (1) 362 U.S. 17.
Precedent	(2) [1964] 6 S.C.R.
Precedent	885, (3) [1970] 3 S.C.R.
Precedent	530.
Precedent	(4) [1972] 2 S.C.C.
Precedent	788.
Precedent	773  taken away or even affected by the act of an <ORG> without the authority of law, would be illegal.
Precedent	That would give rise to a justiciable issue which can be agitated in a proceeding under article 226.
Precedent	The real question, therefore, is, even if a law takes away or abridges the fundamental right of citizens under article 19 (1) (f) I whether it would be void and therefore non-est as respects non-citizens ?
Precedent	<CITATION_656658> (1) the question was whether a prosecution commenced before the coming into force of the Constitution could be continued after the Constitution came into force as the Act in question there became void as violating article 19 (1) (a) and.
Precedent	19 (2).
Precedent	<NAME>, J. who delivered the majority judgment was of the view that  the prosecution could be continued on the ground that the provisions of the Constitution including article 13(1) were not retrospective.
Precedent	The learned judge said that after the commencement of the Constitution, no existing law could be allowed to stand in the way of the exercise of fundamental rights, that such inconsistent laws were not wiped off or obliterated from the statute book and that the statute would operate in respect of all matters or events which took place before the Constitution came into force and that it is also operated after the Constitution came into force and would remain in the statute book as operative so far as non-citizens are concerned.
Precedent	This decision is clear that even though a law which is inconsistent with fundamental rights under article 19 would become void after the commencement of the Constitution,, the law would still continue in force in so far as non-citizens are concerned.
Precedent	This decision takes the view that the word 'void' in article 1 3 (1) would not have the effect of wipi ng out pre-Constitution laws from the statute book-, that they will continue to be operative so far as non- citizens are concerned, notwithstanding the fact that they are inconsistent with the fundamental rights of citizens and therefore become void under article 13 (1)  <CITATION_1683423> (2 )the question was about the scope of article 1 3 (1).
Precedent	This Court had held that certain provisions of the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 (a pre-constitution Act), in so far as they prohibited the possession, use and consumption of.
Precedent	medicinal preparations were void as violating article 19(1) (f).
Precedent	The appellant was prosecuted under the said Act and he pleaded that he had taken medicine containing alcohol.
Precedent	The controversy was whether the burden of proving that fact was on him.
Precedent	It became necessary to consider the legal effect of the declaration made by this Court that s. 13 (b) of the said Act in so far as it affected liquid medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol was invalid as it infringed article 19(1) (f).
Precedent	At t he first hearing all the judges were agreed that a declaration by a <ORG> that part of a section was invalid did not repeal or amend that section.
Precedent	<NAME>, J. with whom <NAME>, J. was inclined to agree, held that a distinction must be made between unconstitutionality arising from lack of legislative competence and that arising from a violation of constitutional limitations on legislative (1)  S.C.R.
Precedent	228.
Precedent	(2)  1 S.C.R.
Precedent	613.
Precedent	774  power.
Precedent	According to him, if the law is made without legislative competence, it was a nullity; a law violating a constitutional prohibition enacted for the benefit of the public generally was also a nullity; but a law violating a constitutional prohibition enacted for individuals was not a nullity but was merely unenforceable.
Precedent	At the second hearing of the case, <NAME>, J. after referring to <NAME> Case(1), said that for determining the rights and obligations of citizens, the part declared void should be notionally taken to be obliterated from the section for  all intents and purposes though it may remain written on the statute book and be a good law when a question arises for determination of rights and obligations incurred prior to January 26, 1950, and also for the determination of rights of persons who have not been given fundamental rights by the Constitution.
Precedent	<NAME>, J. in his dissenting judgment held that to hold that the invalid part was obliterated would be tantamount to saying covertly that the judicial declaration had to that extent amended the section.
Precedent	At p. 659, the learned Judge observed :  "It is beyond all dispute that it is for the <ORG> to judge whether the restrictions imposed by any existing law or any part thereof on the fundamental rights of citizens are reasonable or unreasonable in the interest of the general public or for the protection of the interests of any Schedulea Tribe.
Precedent	If the <ORG> holds that the restrictions are unreasonable then the Act or the part thereof which imposes such unreasonable restrictions comes into conflict and becomes i nconsistent with the fundamental right conferred on the citizens by article 19(1) (f) and is by article 13(1) rendered void, not in toto or for all purposes or for all persons but 'to the extent of such inconsistency' i.e., to the extent it is inconsistent with the exercise of that fundamental right by the citizens.
Precedent	This is plainly the position, as I see it."
Precedent	<NAME>, C.J.
Precedent	rejected the distinction between a law void for lack of legislative power and a law void for violating a constitutional fetter or limitation on legislative power.
Precedent	Both these declarations, according to the learned Chief Justice, of unconstitutionality go to the root of the power itself and there is no, real distinction between them and they represent but two aspects of want of legislative power.
Precedent	<CITATION_762155> .
Precedent	(2) the question was whether the C.P.
Precedent	and Berar Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act , 1947, amended s. 43 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, by introducing provisions which authorized <ORG> to take up the entire motor  transport business in the Province and run it in competition with and even to the exclusion of motor transport operators.
Precedent	These provisions, though valid when enacted, became void on the coming into force of the Constitution, as they violated article 19(1)   (g) On June 18, 1951, the Constitution was amended so as to authorize the (1) [1951] S.C.R.
Precedent	228.
Precedent	(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R.
Precedent	589.
Fact	775  State to carry on business "whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, or citizens or otherwise".
Fact	A notification was issued after the amendment and the <ORG> was concerned with the validity of the notification.
Fact	The real question before the <ORG> was that although S. 43 was void between January 26, 1950, and June 18, 1951, the amend- ment of the article 19(6) had the affect of removing the constitutional invalidity of s. 43 which, from the date of amendment, became valid and operative.
Argument	After referring to the meaning given to the word 'void' in <NAME> Case(1), <NAME>, Acting C.J.
Argument	said for the <ORG> :  "All laws, e xisting or future, which are inconsistent with the, provisions of Part III of our Constitution are, by the express provision of article 13 , rendered void 'to the extent of such inconsistency'.
Argument	Such laws were not dead for all purposes.
Precedent	They existed for the purposes of pre-Constitution rights and liabilities and they remained operative, even after the Constitution, as against non- citizens.
Precedent	It is only as against the citizens that they remained in a dormant or moribund condition" (at pp.
Precedent	599-600).
Precedent	<CITATION_449556> .
Precedent	(2), <NAME> said that a law made without legislative competence and a law violative of constitutional limitations on legislative power were both unconstitutional and both had the same reckoning in a court of law; and they were both unenforceable but it did not follow from this that both laws were of the same quality and character and stood on the same footing for all purposes.
Precedent	The proposition laid down by the learned Judge was that if a law is enacted by a legislature on a topic not  within its competence, the law was a nullity but if the law was on a topic within its competence but if it violated some constitutional prohibition.
Precedent	the law was only unenforceable and not a nullity.
Precedent	In other words, a law if it lacks legislative competence was absolutely null and void and a subsequent cession of the legislative topic would not revive the law which was stillborn and the law would have to be re-enacted; but' a law within the legislative competence but violative of constitutional limitation was unenforceable but once the limitation was removed, the law became effective.
Precedent	The learned judge said that the observa- tions of <NAME>, J, in <NAME>'s case(3) that qua citizens that part of s.13(b) of the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949, which had been declared invalid by this Court "had to be regarded as null and void"  could notin the context be construed as implying that the impugned law mustbe regarded as non-est so as to be incapable of taking effect when thebar was removed.
Precedent	He summed up the result of  the authorities as follows :  "Where an enactment is unconstitutional in part but valid as to the rest, assuming of course that the two portions are sever able, it cannot be held to have been wiped out of the statute book as it admittedly must remain there for the purpose of enforcement of the valid portion thereof, and (1) [1951] S.C.R 228.
Precedent	(2) [1958] S.C.R.
Precedent	1422.
Precedent	(3) [1955] 1 S.C.R.
Precedent	613.
Precedent	776  being on the statute book, even that portion which is unenforceable on the ground that it is unconstitutional will operate proprio vigore when the Constitutional bar is removed, and there is no need for a fresh legislation."
Precedent	In <NAME> v. State of U. P. and Others(t) it was held that a post-Constitution law is void from its inception but that a pre-Constitution law having been validly enacted would continue in force so far as non-citizens are concerned after the Constitution came into force.
Precedent	The <ORG> further said that there is no distinction in the meaning, of the word 'void' in article 13(1) and in 13(2) and th at it connoted the same concept but, since from its inception the post-Constitution lay is void, the law cannot be resuscitated without reenactment.
Precedent	<NAME>, J. who wrote the majority judgment said after citing the observations of <NAME>, Actg.
Precedent	C.J.
Precedent	in <NAME> Case(supra):  "The second part of the observation directly applies only to a case covered by article 13(1 ), for the learned Judges say that the laws exist for the purposes of pre- constitution rights and liabilities and they remain operative even after the Constitution as against non-citizens.
Precedent	The said observation could not obviously apply to post Constitu- tution laws.
Precedent	Even so, it is said that by a parity of reasoning the post-Constitution laws are also void to the, extent of their repugnancy and therefore the law in respect of noncitizens will be on the statute-book and by the application of the doctrine of eclipse, the same result should flow in its case also.
Precedent	There is some plausibility in this argument, but it ignores one vital princ iple, viz., the existence or the non-existence of legislative power or competency at the time the law is made governs the situation" (p. 38).
Precedent	<NAME>, C.J.
Precedent	dissented.
Precedent	He was of the view that a post- Constitution law may infringe either a fundamental right conferred on citizens only or a fundamental right conferred on any person, citizen or noncitizen and that in the first case the law will not stand in the way of the exercise by the citizens of that fundamental right and therefore, will not have any operation on the rights of the citizens, but it will be quite effective as regards non-citizens.
Precedent	<CITATION_1718426> (2), the <ORG> was of the view that the meaning of the word 'void' is the same both in article 13(1) and article 13(2) and that the application of the doctrine of eclipse in the case of pre-Constitution laws and not in the case of post- Constitution laws does not depend upon the two parts of article 13; " that it arises from the inherent difference between article 13(1) and article 13(2) arising from th e fact that one is dealing with pre-Constitution laws, and the other is dealing with post-Constitution laws, with the result that in one case the laws being not still-born the doctrine of eclipse will apply while in the other (1)  Supp.2 S.C.R.8.
Precedent	(2)  Supp.
Precedent	1 S. C. R. 912.
Precedent	777  case the law being still-born there will be no scope for the application of the doctrine of eclipse."
Precedent	If the meaning of the word 'void' in article 13(1) is the same as its meaning in article 13(2 ), it is difficult to understand why a pre-Constitution law which takes away or abridges the rights under article.
Precedent	19 should remain operative even after the Constitution came into.
Precedent	force as regards non-citizens and a post-Constitution law which takes away or abridges them should not be operative as respects noncitizens.
Precedent	The fact that pre-Constitution law was valid when enacted can afford no reason why it should remain operative as respects noncitizens after the Constitution came into force as it became void on account of its inconsistency wit h the provisions of Part 111.
Precedent	Therefore, the real reason why it remains operative as against non- citizens is that it is void only to the extent of its inconsistency with the rights conferred under Article 19 and that its voidness is, therefore, confined to citizens, as, ex hypothesis the law became inconsistent with their fundamental rights alone.
Precedent	If that be so, we see no reason why a post-Constitution law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by article 19 should not be operative in regard to non-citizens as it is void only to the extent of the contravention of the rights conferred on citizens, namely, those under article 19.
Precedent	Article 13(2) is an injunction to the 'state' not to pass any law which takes away or abridges the fundamental rights conferred by Part III and the consequence of the contravention of the injunction is that the law would be void to the extent of the contravention.
Precedent	The expression 'to the extent of the contravention' in the sub-article can only mean, to the extent of the co ntravention of the rights conferred under that part.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rights do not exist in vacuum.
RatioOfTheDecision	They must always inhere in some person whether natural or juridical and, under Part It, they inhere even in fluctuating bodies like a linguistic or religious minorities or denominations.
RatioOfTheDecision	And, when the sub-article says that the law would be void "to the extent of the contravention", it can only mean to the extent of the contravention of the rights conferred on persons, minorities or denominations, as the case may be.
RatioOfTheDecision	Just as a pre-Constitution law taking away or abridging the fundamental rights under article 19 remains operative after the Constitution came into force as respects non-citizens as it is not inconsistent with their fundamental rights, so also a post-Constitution law offending article 19 , remains operative as against non- citizens as it is not in contravention of any of their fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	The same scheme permeates both,, the sub-articles, namely, to make the law void in article 13(1) to the extent of the inc onsistency with the fundamental rights, and in article 13(2) to the extent of the contravention of those rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the voidness is not in rem but to the extent only of inconsistency or contravention, as the case may be of the rights conferred under Part 111.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, when article 13(2) uses the ex- pression 'void', it can only mean, void as against persons whose fundamental rights are taken away or abridged by a law.
RatioOfTheDecision	The law might be 'still-born' so far as the persons, entities or denominations whose fundamental rights are taken away or abridged, but there is no reason why the law should be void or 'still-born' as against those who have no fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is said that the expression "to the extent of the contravention" in the article means that the part of the law which contravenes the fundamental right would alone be void and not the other parts which do not so contravene.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the argument was that the expression is intended to denote only the part of the law that would be come void and not to show that the law will be void only as regards the persons or entities whose fundamental rights have been taken away or abridged.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first part of the sub-article speaks of 'any law' and the second part refers to the same law by using the same expression, namely, ,any law'.
RatioOfTheDecision	We think that the expression 'any law' occurring in the latter part of the sub-article must necessarily refer to the same expression in the former part and therefore, the Constitution-makers, have already made it clear that the law that would be void is only the law that contravenes the fundamental rights conferred by Part 111, and so, the phrase 'to the extent of the contravention' can mean only to the extent of the contravention of the rights conferred.
RatioOfTheDecision	For instance, if a section in a statute takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Part III it will be void because it is the law embodied in the section which takes away or abridges the fundamental right.
RatioOfTheDecision	And this is precisely what the sub- article has s aid in express terms by employing the expression 'any law' both in the former and the latter part of it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is difficult to see the reason why the Constitution makers wanted to state that the other sections, which did not violate the fundamental right, would not be void, and any such categorical statement would have been wrong, as the other sections might be void if they are inseparably knitted to the void one.
RatioOfTheDecision	When we see that the latter part of the sub-article is concerned with the effect of the voilation of the injunction contained in the former part, the words "to the extent of the contravention" can only refer to the rights conferred under Part III and denote only the compass of voidness with respect to persons or entities resulting from the contravention of the rights conferred upon them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Why is it that a law is void under article 13 (2) ?
RatioOfTheDecision	It is only because the law takes away or abridges a fundamental right.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are many fundamental rights and they inhere in diverse types of persons, minorities or de nominations.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no ,conceivable reason why a law which takes away the fundamental right of one class of persons, or minorities or denominations should be void as against others who have no such fundamental rights as, ex hypothesi the law cannot contravene their rights.
Precedent	It was submitted that this Court has rejected the distinction drawn by <NAME>, J. in <NAME>'s case(1) between legislative incapacity arising from lack of power under the relevant legislative entry and that arising from a check upon legislative power on account of constitutional provisions like fundamental rights and that if the law enacted by a legislature having no capacity in the former sense would be void in rem, there is no reason why a law passed by a legislature having no legislative capacity in the latter (1) [1958] S.C.R.
Precedent	1422.
Precedent	779  sense is void only cua persons whose fundamental rights are taken away or abridged.
Precedent	It was also urged that the expression "the State shall not make any law" in article 13(2) is a  clear mandate of the fundamental law of the, land and, therefore, it is a case of total incapacity and total want of power.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the question is : what is the mandate ?
RatioOfTheDecision	The mandate is that the <ORG> shall not make any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part 111.
RatioOfTheDecision	If no rights are conferred under Part III upon a person, or, if rights are conferred, but they are not taken away or abridged by the law, where is the incapacity of the legislature ?
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be noted that both in Deep Chands Case (supra) and <NAME> case (supra), the decision in <NAME>'s case (supra) was not adverted to.
RatioOfTheDecision	If on a textual reading of article 13 , the conclusion which we have reached is the only, reasonable one, we need not pause to consider whether that conclusion could be arrived at except on the basis of the distinction drawn by <NAME>, in <NAME>'s case(supra).
RatioOfTheDecision	However, we venture to think that there is nothing strange in the notion of a legislature having no inherent legislati ve capacity or power to take away or abridge by a law the fundamental rights conferred on citizens and yet having legislative power to pass the same law in respect of noncitizens who have no such fundamental rights to be taken away or abridged.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the legislative incapacity subjectwise with reference to Articles 245 and 246 in this context would be the taking.
RatioOfTheDecision	away or abridging by law the fundamental rights under Article 19 of citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> has urged with considerable force that the terms 'void' and 'voidable' are inappropriate in the sphere of administrative law(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	According to him, there is no such thing as voidness, in an absolute sense, for, the whole question is : void as against whom?
RatioOfTheDecision	And he cites the decision of <ORG> in <NAME> v. Fernando(2) in his support.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1878241> (3) this Court has said that a post- Constitution Act -which has been struck down for violating the fundamental rights conferred under Part III and was, therefore still-born, has stil l an existence without re-enactment, for being put in the Ninth Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	That only illustrates that any statement that a law which takes away or abridges fundamental rights conferred under Part III is still-born or null and void requires qualifications in certain situations.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although the general rule is that a statute declared unconstitutional is void at all times and that its invalidity must be recognized and acknowledged for all purposes and is no law and a nullity, this is neither universally nor absolutely true, and there are many exceptions to it.
Precedent	A realistic approach has been eroding the doctrine of absolute nullity in all cases and for all purposes(4) and it has been held that such broad statements must be (1) See "Unlawful Administrative Action", 83 Law Quarterly Rev.
Precedent	499, at 518.
Precedent	(2) (1967) 3 W.L.R.
Precedent	289.
Precedent	(3) [1971] 2 S.C.C.
Precedent	893.
Precedent	(4) See Warring v. Colpoys, 122 F. 2d 642.
Precedent	780  taken with some qualifications(1), that even an unconstitution..... statute is an Operative fact(2) at least prior to a det ermination of constitutionality(1), and may have consequences which cannot ignored(1).
Precedent	See Corpus Justice Secundum, Vol.
Precedent	16, p. 469).
Precedent	This is illustrated by the analysis given by kelsen(3) :  "The decision made by the competent authority that something that presents itself as a norm is null ab initio because it fulfils the conditions of nullity determined by the legal order is a constitutive act; it has a definite legal effect; without and prior to this act the phenomenon in question cannot, be considered as null.
Precedent	Hence the decision is not 'declaratory', that is to say, it is not, as it presents itself, a declaration of nullity; it is a true annulment, an annulment ,with retroactive force.
Precedent	There must be something legally existing to which this decision refers.
Precedent	Hence, the phenomenon in question cannot be something null ab initio, that is to say, legally nothing.
Precedent	It has to be considered as a norm annulled with retroactive force by the decision declaring it null ab initio.
Precedent	Just as everything <NAME> touched  turned into gold, everything to which the law refers becomes law, i.e., something legally existing".
Precedent	We do not think it necessary to pursue this aspect further in this case.
Precedent	For our purpose it is enough to say that if a law is otherwise good and does not contravene any of their fundamental rights, noncitizens cannot take advantage of the voidness of the law for the reason that it contravenes the fundamental right of citizens and claim that there is no law at all.
Precedent	Nor would this proposition violate any principle of equality before the law because citizens and non-citizens are not similarly situated as the citizens have certain fundamental rights which non-citizens have not.
Precedent	Therefore, even assuming that under article 226 of the Constitution, the first respondent was entitled to move <ORG> and seek, a remedy for infringement of its ordinary right to property, the impugned provisions were not non-est 'but were valid laws: enacted by a competent legislature as respects non-citizens and the first respon dent cannot take the plea that its rights to property are being taken away or abridged without the authority of law.
Precedent	Now, let us see whether the definition,of 'establishment' in s. 2(4) violates the right under article 14 and make the impugned provisions void.
Precedent	<ORG> held that there was no intelligible differentia to distinguish establishments grouped together under the definition of establishment' in S. 2(4) and establishments left out of the group and that in any event, the differentia had no rational relation or nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the Act and that the im- (1) See <ORG> v. <ORG>, Ark., 308 U.S. 371.
Precedent	(2) See warring v. colpoys, 122 F. 2d 642.
Precedent	(3)See "General Theory of Law and State", p. 161.
Precedent	781  pugned provisions as they affected the rights and liabilities of employers and employees in respect of the establishments defined in s. 2(4) were, therefore, violative of article 14.
Precedent	The reasoning of <ORG> was that all factories  falling within the meaning of s. 2(m) of the Factories Act, 1 948, were brought within the purview of the definition of 'establishment' while establishments carrying business or trade and employing less than fifty persons were left out and that out of this latter class of establishments an exception was made and all establishments carrying on the business of tramways or motor omnibus services were :included without any fair reason and that, though Government establishments which were factories were included within the definition of 'establishment', other Government establishments were excluded and, therefore, the classification was unreasonable.
Precedent	The definition of 'establishment includes factories, tramway or motor omnibus services and any establishment carrying on business or trade and employing more than 50 persons, but excludes all Government establishments carrying on business or trade.
Precedent	In <ORG>, an affidavit was filed by Mr. <NAME>, Deputy Secretary to <ORG>, wher ein it was stated that the differentiation between factories and commercial establishments employing less than 50 persons was made for the reason that the turnover of labour is more in factories than in commercial establishments other than factories on account of the fact that industrial.
RatioOfTheDecision	labour frequently changes employment for a variety of reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> was not prepared to accept this explanation.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> said "It may that in case, of commercial establishment employing not more than 50 persons the, turnover of labour in commercial establishments being less the unpaid accumula- tions may be small.
RatioOfTheDecision	But whether unpaid accumulation are small or large, is an immaterial consideration for of enactment of the impugned provisions.
RulingByLowerCourt	T the impugned provisions being to get at the unpaid accumu- lations and to utilize them for the benefit of labour, the extent of the unpaid accumulations with any particular establishment can never be a relevant consideration."
RulingByLowerCourt	According to <ORG>, as an establis hment carrying on tramway or motor omnibus service would be within the definition of establishment even if it employs less than 50 persons, or for that matter, even less than 10 persons, the reason given in the affidavit of Mr. <NAME> for excluding all commercial establishments employing less than 50 persons from the definition was not.
RulingByLowerCourt	tenable.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> was also of the view that when Government factories were included in the definition of 'establishment' there was no reason for excluding government establishments other than factories from the definition.
RulingByLowerCourt	The affidavit of Mr. <NAME> made it clear that there were hardly any establishments of the <ORG> or <ORG> Governments which carried on business or trade or any work in connection with or ancillary thereto and, therefore, the legislature did not think it fit to extend the provisions of the Act to such establishments.
RatioOfTheDecision	No affidavit in rejoinder was filed on behalf of respondents to contradict this statement.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be an idle parade of familiar l earning to review the multitudinous cases in which the constitutional assurance of equality before the law has been applied.
RatioOfTheDecision	The equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	But laws may classify.
Precedent	1 And the very idea of1 classification is that of inequality.
Precedent	In tackling this paradox the <ORG> ha,,; neither abandoned the demand for equality nor denied the legislative right to classify.
Precedent	It has taken a middle course.
Precedent	It has resolved the contradictory demands of legislative specialization and constitutional generality by a doctrine of reasonable classification.
Precedent	(1) A reasonable classification is one which includes all who are similarly situated and none who are not.
Precedent	The question then is what does the phrase 'similarly situated' mean ?
Precedent	The answer to the question is that we must look beyond the classification to the purpose of the law.
Precedent	A reasonable classification is one which includes all persons who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose of the law.
Precedent	The purpose of a law may  be either the elimination of a public mischief or the achievement of some positive public good.
Precedent	A classification is under-inclusive when all who are included in the class are tainted with the mischief but there are others also tainted whom the classification does not include.
Precedent	In other words, a classification is bad as under,-inclusive when a <ORG> benefits or burdens persons in a manner that furthers a legitimate purpose but does not confer the same benefit or place the same burden on others who are similarly situated.
Precedent	A classification is over- inclusive, when it includes not only those who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose but others who are not so situated as well.
Precedent	In other words, this type of classification imposes a burden upon a wider range of individuals than are included in the class of those attended with mischief at which the law aims.
Precedent	<NAME> ordering the death of all male children born on a particular day because one of them would sonic day bring about his downfall employed such a c lassification.
Precedent	The first question, therefore, is whether the exclusion of establishments carrying on business or trade and employing less than 50 persons makes the classification under- inclusive, when it is seen that all factories employing 10 or 20 persons, as the case may be, have been included and that the, purpose of the law is to get in unpaid accumula- tions for the welfare of the labour.
Precedent	Since the classification does not include all who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose of the law, the classification might appear, at first blush, to be unreas- onable.
Precedent	But the <ORG> has recognised the very real difficulties under which legislatures operate-difficulties arising out of both the nature (1) See <NAME> and <NAME>, "The Equal Protaction of the Laws", 37 California Rev.
Precedent	341.
Precedent	783  of the legislative process and of the society which legislation attempts perennially to re-shape--and it has refused to strike down indiscriminately all legislation embodying classificatory inequ ality here under consideration.
Precedent	Mr. Justice <NAME>, in urging tolerance of under-inclusive classifications, stated that such legislation should not be disturbed by the <ORG> unless it can clearly see that there is no fair reason for the law which would not require with equal force its extension to those whom it leaves untouched (1).
Precedent	What, then, are the fair reasons for non-extension ?
Precedent	What should a court do when it is faced with a law making an under-inclusive classification in areas relating to economic and tax matters ?
Precedent	Should it, by its judgment, force the legislature to choose between inaction or perfection ?
Precedent	The legislature cannot be required to impose upon administrative agencies tasks which cannot be carried out or which must be carried out on a large scale at a single stroke.
Precedent	"if the law presumably hits the evil where it is most felt.
Precedent	it is not to be overthrown because there are other instances to which it might have been applied.
Precedent	There is no doctrinaire requirement that the legislation should be co uched in all embracing terms."
Precedent	(see <ORG> v. <NAME>).
Precedent	The piecemeal approach to a general problem permitted by under inclusive classifications, appears justified when it is considered that legislative dealing with such problems is usually an experimental matter.
Precedent	It is impossible to tell how successful a particular approach may be, what dislocations might occur, what evasions might develop.
Precedent	what new evils might be generated in the attempt.
Precedent	Administrative expedients must be forged and tested.
Precedent	Legislators, recognizing these factors, may wish to proceed cautiously, and courts must allow them to (lo so (supra).
Precedent	Administrative convenience in the collection of unpaid accumulations is a factor to be taken into account in adjudging whether the classification is reasonable.
Precedent	A legislation may take one step at a time addressing itself to the phase of the problem which seems most acute to the legislative mind.
Precedent	Therefore, a legislature might select only one phase of one filed for application or a reme dy(3).
Precedent	It may be remembered that article 14 does not require that every regulatory statute apply to all in the same business : where size is an index to the evil at which the law is directed, discriminations between the large and small are permissible, and it is also permissible for reform to take one step at a time, addressing itself to the phase of the problem which seems most acute to the legislative mind.
Precedent	(1) See Missouri, <ORG>, v. <NAME> (1904) 194 US 267, 269.
Precedent	(2) 300 U.S. 379, 400.
Precedent	(3) See Two Guys from Harrison-Allentown v. McGinley , 366 U.S. 582, 592.
Precedent	784  A legislative authority acting within its field is not bound to extend its regulation to all cases which it might possibly reach.
Precedent	The legislature is free to recognize degrees of harm and it may confine the restrictions to those classes of cases where the need seemed to be clearest [see <ORG> v. Martell(1) ].
Precedent	In short, the problem of legislative classification is a perennial one, admitting of no doctrinaire definition.
Precedent	Evils in the  same filed may be of different dimensions and proportions requiring different remedies.
Precedent	Or so the legislature may think [see <NAME> v. Texas(2)].
Precedent	,Once an objective is decided to be within legislative competence, however, the working out of classifications has been only infrequently impeded by judicial negatives.
Precedent	The <ORG> attitude cannot be that the state either has to regulate all businesses, or even all related businesses, and in the same way, or, not at all.
Precedent	An effort to strike at a particular economic evil could not be hindered by the necessity of carrying in its wake a train of vexatious, troublesome and expensive regulations covering the whole range of connected or similar enterprises.
Precedent	Laws regulating economic activity would be viewed differently from laws which touch and concern freedom of speech and religion, voting, procreation, rights with respect to criminal procedure, etc.
Precedent	The prominence given to the equal protection clause in many modern opinions and decisions in America all show that the Cour t feels less constrained to give judicial deference to legislative judgment in the field of human and civil rights than in that of economic regulation and that it is making a vigorous use of the equal protection clause to strike down legislative action in the area of fundamental human rights(3).
Precedent	"Equal Protection clause rests upon two largely subjective judgments : one as to the relative invidiousness of particular differentiation and the other as to the relative importance of the subject with respect to which equality is sought" (4) .
Precedent	The question whether, under article 14 , a classification is reasonable or unreasonable must, in the ultimate analysis depend upon the judicial approach to the problem.
Precedent	The great divide in this area lies in the difference between emphasizing the actualities or the abstractions of legisla- tion.
Precedent	The more complicated society becomes, the greater the diversity of its problems and the more does legislation direct itself to the diversities.
Precedent	"Statutes are directed to less than unive rsal situations.
Precedent	Law reflects distinction that exist in fact or at least appear to exist in the judgment of legislators-those, who have the responsibility for making law fit fact.
Precedent	Legislation is essentially empiric.
Precedent	It addresses itself to the more or less crude outside world and not to the neat, logical models of the mind.
Precedent	Classification is inherent in legislation.
Precedent	To recognize (1) 56 L.
Precedent	Ed., 175,180 (2) 310 U.S. 141.
Precedent	(3) See "Developments-Equal Protection".
Precedent	82 Harv.
Precedent	Law Rev., 1065, at 1127 (4) See <NAME>, "The Supreme Court Foreward", 1966 Term, 80 Harv.
Precedent	Law Rev.
Precedent	91-95.
Precedent	785  marked differences that exist in fact is living law; to disregard practical differences and concentrate on some abstract identities is lifeless logic"(1).
Precedent	That the legislation is directed to practical problems, that the economic mechanism is highly sensitive and complex, that many problems are singular and contingent, that laws are not abstract propositions and do not relate to abstract units and are not to be measured by abstract symmetr y, that exact wisdom and nice adaption of remedies cannot be required, that judgment is largely a prophecy based on meagre and uninterpreted experience, should stand as reminder that in this area the <ORG> does not lake the equal protection requirement in a pedagogic manner(supra).
Precedent	In the utilities, tax and economic regulation cases, there are good reasons for judicial self-restraint if not judicial deference to legislative judgment.
Precedent	The legislature after all has the affirmative responsibility.
Precedent	The <ORG>s have only the power to destroy, not to reconstruct.
Precedent	When these are added to the complexity of economic regulation, the uncertainty, the liability to error, the bewildering conflict of the experts, and the number of times the judges have been overruled by events--self-limitation can be seen to be the path to judicial wisdom and institutional prestige and stability(supra).
Precedent	We must be fastidiously careful to observe the admonition of Mr. Justice <NAME>, Mr. Justice <NAME> and Mr. Justice <NAME> that we do no t "sit as a super-legislature" (see their dissenting opinion in <NAME> v. Harvey(2).
Precedent	Let us look at the problem here in the light of the above discussion.
Precedent	The purpose of the Act is to get unpaid accumulations for utilizing them for the welfare of labour in general.
Precedent	The aim of any legislature would then be, to get the unpaid accumulation from all concerns.
Precedent	So an ideal classification should include all concerns which have 'unpaid accumulations'.
Precedent	But then there are practical problems.
Precedent	Administrative convenience as well as the apprehension whether the experiment., if undertaken as an all-embracing one will be successful, are legitimate considerations in confining the realization of the objective in the first instance to large concerns such as factories employing large amount of labour and', with statutory duty to keep register of wages, paid and unpaid, and the legislature has, in fact,, brought all factories, whether owned by Government of otherwise, within the purview of the definition of 'establishment'.
Precedent	In  other words, it is from the factories that the greatest amount of unpaid accumulations could be collected and since, the factories are bound to maintain records from which.
Precedent	the amount of unpaid accumulations could be easily ascertained, the legislature brought all the factories within the definition of 'establishment'.
Precedent	It then addressed itself to other establishments but thought that establishments employing, less than 50 persons need not be brought within the (1) See the observations of Justice- <NAME> in <NAME> v. <NAME>, 354 U.S. 457, 472.
Precedent	(2) 296 U.S. 404, 441.
Argument	786  purview of the definition as unpaid accumulations in those establishments would be less and might not be sufficient to meet the administrative expenses of collection and as many of them might not be maintaining records from which the amount of unpaid accumulations could be ascertained.
Argument	The affidavit of Mr. <NAME> made it clear that unpaid accumulations in these establishments would be comparatively small.
Argument	The reason why government esta blishments other than factories were not included in the definition is also stated in the affidavit of Mr. <NAME>, namely, that there were hardly any establishments run by the Central or State Government.
Argument	This statement was not contradicted by any affidavit in rejoinder.
RatioOfTheDecision	There remains then the further question whether there was any justification for including tramways and motor omnibuses within the purview of the definition.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as tramways and motor omnibuses are concerned, the legislature of Bombay, when it enacted the Act in 1953, must have had reason to think that unpaid accumulations in these concerns would be large as they usually employed large amount of labour force and that they were bound to keep records of the wages earned and paid.
Statute	Section 2(ii) (a) of the Payment of Wages Act , 1936, before that section was amended in 1965 so far as it is material provided :  "2.
Statute	In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-  (ii) "industrial establishment" means any--  (a) t ramway or motor omnibus service".
Statute	Rule 5 of the Bombay Payment of Wages Rules, 1937 provided "5.
Statute	Register of Wages : A Register of Wages shall be maintained in every factory and industrial establishment and may be kept in such form as the paymaster finds convenient but shall include the following particulars :  (a) the gross wages earned by each person employed for each wage period;  (b) all deductions made from those wages, with an indication in each case of the clause of sub-section (2) of section 7 under which the deduction is made:  (c) the wages actually paid to each person employed for each wage period."
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> must be aware of its own remoteness and lack of familiarity with local problems.
RatioOfTheDecision	Classification is dependent on the peculiar needs and specific difficulties of the community.
RatioOfTheDecision	The needs and difficulties of the community are constituted out of facts and 'opinions beyond the easy ken of the court (supra).
RatioOfTheDecision	It depends to a great extent upon an assessment of the local condition of these concerns wh ich the legislature alone was competent to make.
RatioOfTheDecision	Judicial deference to legislature in instances of economic regulation is sometimes explained by the argument that rationality of a classification may depend upon 'local conditions' about which local legislative or administrative body would be better informed than a court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Consequently, lacking the capacity to inform it-,elf fully about the peculiarities of a particular local situation, a court should hesitate to dub the legislative classification irrational (see, <NAME> v. <ORG> and <ORG>).
RatioOfTheDecision	Tax laws, for example, may respond closely to local needs and court's familiarity with these needs is likely to be limited.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> for the appellants argued that, if it is held that the inclusion of tramways and motor omnibuses in the category of 'establishment' is bad, the legislative intention to include factories and establishments employing more than 50 persons should not be thwarted by striking down the whole definition.
Precedent	He said that.
Precedent	the doct rine of severability can be applied and that establishments running tramways and motor omnibuses can be excluded from the definition without in the least sacrificing the legislative intention.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> ex rel Williamson (2) a statute providing for sterilization of habitual criminals excluded embezzlers and certain other criminals from its coverage.
Precedent	<ORG> found that the statutory classification denied equal protection and remanded the case to <ORG> to determine whether the sterilization provisions should be either invalidated or made to cover all habitual, criminals.
Precedent	Without elaboration, <ORG> held the entire statute unconstitutional, declining to use the severability clause to remove the exception that created the discrimination.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>'s case the exception may have suggested a particular legislative intent that one class should not be covered even if the result was that none would be.
RatioOfTheDecision	But there is no necessary reason for choosing the intent to exclude one gr oup over the intent to include another.
RatioOfTheDecision	Courts may reason that without legislation none would be covered, and that invalidating the exemption therefore amounts to illegitimate judicial legislation over the remaining class not previously covered.
RatioOfTheDecision	The conclusion, then, is to invalidate the whole statute, no matter how narrow the exemption had been.
RatioOfTheDecision	The reluctance to extend legislation may be particularly great if a statute defining a crime is before a court, since extension would make behaviour criminal that had not been so before.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the consequences of invalidation will be unacceptable if the legislation is necessary to all important public purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	For example, a statute requiring licensing of all doctors except those from a certain school could be found to deny equal protection, but a court should be hesitant to choose invalidation of licensing as an appropriate remedy.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though the test is imprecise-, a court must weigh the general interest in retaining the statute against the court's own reluctance to exte nd legislation to those no previously covered.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such an inquiry may lead a court into examination of legislative purpose, the overall statutory scheme, statutory arrangements in connected fields and the needs of the public(,').
Precedent	(1) 301 U.S. 495.
Precedent	(2) 316 U.S. 535.
Precedent	(3) See "Developments-Equal Protection", 82 Harv.
Precedent	Law Rev., 1065, ,it pp.
Precedent	1136-7.
Precedent	788  This Court has, without articulating any reason, applied the doctrine of severability by deleting the offending clause which made classification unreasonable [see <CITATION_493792> (1) and <CITATION_1322784> .
Precedent	(2)].
Precedent	Whether a, court can remove the unreasonableness of a classification when it is under-inclusive by extending the ambit of the legislation to cover the class omitted to be included, or, by applying the doctrine of severability delete a clause which makes a classification over-inclusive, are matters on which it is not necessary to express any final opinion as we have held that the inclusion of tramway and motor omnibus service in the definition of 'esta blishment' did not make the classification unreasonable having regard to the purpose of the legislation.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result, we hold that the impugned sections are valid and allow the appeals with costs.
RulingByPresentCourt	Hearing fee one set.
Precedent	V.P.S.
Precedent	Appeals allowed.
Precedent	(1) [1967] 1 S.C.R.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	(2) [1968] 1 S.C.R.661.
Fact	789
