Fact	JUDGMENT (for himself and on behalf of <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ.)
Fact	(Majority view)  1.
Fact	This reference to <ORG> raises a question in regard to the constitutional validity of death penalty for murder provided in Section 302, Penal Code , and the sentencing procedure embodied in Sub-section (3) of Section 354 of the CrPC, 1973.
Fact	2.
Fact	The reference has arisen in these circumstances : <NAME>, appellant in Criminal Appeal No.
Fact	273 of 1979, was tried and convicted and sentenced to death under Section 302 , Indian Penal Code for the murders of <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> by the Sessions Judge.
Fact	<ORG> confirmed his death sentence and dismissed his appeal.
Fact	3.
Fact	<NAME>'s appeal by special leave, came up for hearing before <ORG> of this Court (consisting of Sarkaria and <NAME>, JJ.).
Fact	The only question for consideration in the appeal was, whether the facts found by the courts below would be "special reasons" for awarding, the death sentence as re quired under Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1973.
Argument	4.
Argument	<NAME>, appearing as amicus curiae on behalf of the appellant, <NAME>, in Criminal Appeal No.
Argument	273 of 1979, contended that in view of the ratio of <CITATION_1998837> .
Argument	(1979) 3 SCR 646, the courts below were not competent to impose the extreme penalty of death on the appellant It was submitted that neither the circumstance that the appellant was previously convicted for murder and committed these murders after he had served out the life sentence in the earlier case, nor the fact that these three murders were extremely heinous and inhuman, constitutes a "special reason" for imposing the death sentence within the meaning of Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1974.
Argument	Reliance for this argument was placed on <NAME> (ibid) which, according to the counsel, was on facts very similar, if not identical, to that case.
Argument	5.
Precedent	<NAME>, J. was of opinion that the majority view in <NAME> taken by <NAME>, who spoke for himself and <NAME> <NAME>, J., was contrary to the judgment of <ORG> in <CITATION_71095988> , inter alia, on these aspects:  (i) In <NAME>, <NAME>, J. observed:  The main focus of our judgment is on this poignant gap in 'human rights jurisprudence' within the limits of the Penal Code , impregnated by the Constitution.
Precedent	To put it pithily, a world order voicing the worth of the human person, a cultural legacy charged with compassion, an interpretative liberation from colonial callousness to life and liberty, a concern for social justice as setting the rights of individual justice, interest With the inherited text of the Penal Code to yield the goals desiderated by the Preamble and Articles 14, 19 and 21.
Argument	6.
Precedent	According to <NAME>, J., the challenge to the award of the death sentence as violative of Articles 14, 19 and 21, was repelled by <ORG> in <NAME>'s case:  (ii) In <NAME>'s case, <ORG> held:  The impossibility of laying down standard (in the matter of sen tencing) is at the very core of criminal law as administered in India which invests the Judges with a very wide discretion in the matter of fixing the degree of punishment and that this discretion in the matter of sentence is liable to be corrected by superior courts....
Precedent	The exercise of judicial discretion on well recognised principles is, in the final analysis, the safest possible safeguard for the accused.
Precedent	In <NAME>, the majority decision characterised the above observations in <NAME> as "incidental observations without concentration on the sentencing criteria", and said that they are not the ratio of the decision, adding "Judgments are not Bible for every line to be venerated.
Precedent	(iii) In <NAME>, the plurality observed:  It is constitutionally permissible to swing a criminal out of corporal existence only if the security of State and society, public order and the interests of the general public compel that course as provided in Article 19(2) to (6).
Precedent	This view again, according to <NAME> , J., is inconsistent with the law laid down by <ORG> in Jagmohan, wherein it was held that deprivation of life is constitutionally permissible if that is done according to "procedure established by law.
Precedent	(iv) In <NAME>, the majority has further opined:  The only correct approach is to read into Section 302 , I. P. C. and Section 354(3) , Criminal P. C., the human rights and humane trends in the Constitution.
Precedent	So examined, the right to life and the fundamental freedoms is deprived when he is hanged to death, his dignity is defiled when his neck is noosed and strangled.
Precedent	7.
Precedent	Against the above, <NAME>, J. commented : The only change after <ORG> delivered its judgment is the introduction of Section 354(3) which requires special reasons to be given if the court is to award the death sentence.
Precedent	If without the restriction of stating sufficient reasons death sentence could be constitutionally awarded under the I. P. C. and Criminal P. C. as it stood before the amendment, it  is difficult to perceive how by requiring special reasons to be given the amended section would be unconstitutional unless the "sentencing sector is made restrictive and least vagarious".
Precedent	(v) In <NAME>, the majority has held that: "such extraordinary grounds alone constitutionally qualify as special reasons as leave no option to the court but to execute the offender if <ORG> and society are to survive.
RatioOfTheDecision	One stroke of murder hardly qualifies for this drastic requirement, however gruesome the killing or pathetic the situation, unless the inherent testimony oozing from that act is irresistible that the murderous appetite of the convict is too chronic and deadly that ordered life in a given locality or society or in prison itself would be gone if this man were now or later to be at large.
RatioOfTheDecision	If he is an irredeemable murderer, like a bloodthirsty tiger, be has to emit his terrestrial tenancy.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to <NAME>, J., what it extracted above, runs directly counter to and cannot be reconciled with the fo llowing observations in <NAME>'s case:  But some (murders) at least are diabolical in conception and cruel in execution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In some others where the victim is a person of high standing in the country, society is liable to be rocked to its very foundation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such murders cannot be simply washed away by finding alibis in the social maladjustment of the murderer.
RatioOfTheDecision	Prevalence of such crimes speaks, in the opinion of many, for the inevitability of death penalty not only by way of deterrence but as a token of emphatic disapproval by the society.... A very responsible body (<ORG>) has come to the conclusion after considering all the relevant factOrs.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the conclusions thus offered to us, it will be difficult to hold that capital punishment as such is unreasonable or not required in the public interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	(vi) <NAME>, J. was further of the opinion that it is equally beyond the functions of a court to evolve "working rules for imposition of death sentence bearing the markings of enlightened flexibility and soci al sensibility" or to make law "by cross-fertilisation from sociology, history, cultural anthropology and current national perils and developmental goals and, above all, constitutional currents".
RatioOfTheDecision	This function, in his view, belongs only to <ORG> The <ORG> must administer the law as it stands.
RatioOfTheDecision	(vii) The learned Judge has further expressed that the view taken by <NAME>, J. in <NAME> that "special reasons" necessary for imposing death penalty must relate not to the crime as such, but to the criminal is not warranted by the law as it stands today.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
RatioOfTheDecision	Without expressing his own opinion on the various questions raised in that case including the one With regard to the scope, amplification and application of Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1973, Sarkaria, J., in agreement with <NAME>, J., directed the records of the case to be submitted to the Hon'ble the Chief Justice, for constituting a large Bench to resolve the doubts, difficulties and inconsistencies pointed out by <NAME>, J.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
RatioOfTheDecision	In t he meanwhile, several persons convicted of murders and sentenced to death, filed writ petitions (namely, Writ Petitions 564, 165, 179, 434, 89, 754, 756 and 976 of 1979) under Article 32 of the Constitution directly challenging the constitutional validity of the death penalty provided in Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code for the offence of murder, and the sentencing procedure provided in Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1974.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is how, the matter has now come up before this larger <ORG> of five Judges.
RatioOfTheDecision	11.
RatioOfTheDecision	At the outset, <NAME> submitted with some vehemence and persistence, that <NAME>'s case needs reconsideration by a larger <ORG> if not by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reconsideration of <NAME>, according to the learned Counsel, is necessitated because of subsequent events and changes in law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Firstly, it is pointed out that when <NAME> was decided in 1972, the then extant CrPC , 1898 left the choice between death and life imprisonment as punishment for murder entirely to the discretion of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This  position has since undergone a complete change and under Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1973, death sentence has ceased to be the normal penalty for murder.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly, it is argued, the seven-Judge decision of this <ORG> in <CITATION_1766147> has given a new interpretative dimension of the provisions of Articles 21, 19 and 14 and their inter-relationship, and according to this new interpretation every law of punitive detention both in its procedural and substantive aspects must pass the test of all the three Articles.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is stressed that an argument founded on this expansive interpretation of these Articles was not available when Jagmohan was decided.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thirdly, it is submitted that India has since acceded to the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights adopted by <ORG>, which came into force on December 16, 1976.
RatioOfTheDecision	By virtue of this Covenant, India and i".
RatioOfTheDecision	other 47 countries who are a party to it, stand committed to a policy for abolition of the 'death penalty'.
RatioOfTheDecision	12.
Precedent	Dr. <NAME> submitted that the question of death penalty cannot be foreclosed for ever on the abstract doctrine of stare decisis by a previous decision of this <ORG>.
Precedent	It is emphasised that the very nature of the problem is such that it must be the subject of review from time to time so as to be in tune with the evolving standards of decency in a maturing society.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	The learned Solicitor-General, <NAME> opposed the request of <NAME> for referring the matter to a larger <ORG> because such a course would only mean avoidable delay in disposal of the matter.
Precedent	At the same time, the learned Counsel made it clear that since the constitutionality of the death penalty for murder was now sought to be challenged on additional arguments based on subsequent events and changes in law, he would have no objection on the ground of stare decisis, to a fresh consideration of the whole problem by this very <ORG>.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	In view of the concession made by <NAME> we proceeded to hear the counsel for the pa rties' at length, and to deal afresh with the constitutional questions concerning death penalty raised in these writ petitions.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	We have heard the arguments of <NAME>, appearing for the writ-petitioners in Writ Petition No.
Precedent	564/79 for more than three weeks and also those of Dr. <NAME>, Dr. <NAME> and <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, appearing for intervenes or for the other writ-petitioners.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	We have also heard the arguments of <NAME>, Solicitor-General, appearing for <ORG> and <NAME> appearing for the State of Maharashtra and the other counsel appearing for the respondents.
Precedent	17.
Precedent	The principal questions that fall to be considered in this case are:  (i) Whether death penalty provided for the offence of murder in Section 302 , Penal Code is unconstitutional.
Precedent	(ii) If the answer to the foregoing question be in the negative, whether the sentencing procedure provided in Sec, 354(3) of the CrPC , 1973 (Act 2 of 1974) is unconstitutional on the ground that it i nvests the <ORG> with unguided and untrammelled discretion and allows death sentence to be arbitrarily or freakishly imposed on a person found guilty of murder or any other capital offence punishable under the Indian Penal Code with death or, in the alternative, with imprisonment for life.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	We will first take up Question No.
Precedent	(I) relating to the constitutional validity of Section 302 , Penal Code .
Precedent	Question No.
Precedent	(I):  19.
Precedent	Before dealing with the contentions canvassed, it will be useful to have a short survey of the legislative history of the provisions of the Penal Code which permit the imposition "of death penalty toe certain offences.
Precedent	20.
Precedent	The Indian Penal Code was drafted by <ORG> presided over by Mr. <NAME>.
Precedent	The draft underwent further revision at the hands of well-known jurists, tike Sir <NAME>, and was completed in 1850.
Precedent	The Indian Penal Code was passed by the then <ORG> on October 6, 1860 and was enacted as Act No.
Precedent	XLV of 1860.
Precedent	21.
Statute	Section 33 of the Penal C ode enumerates punishments to which offenders are liable under the provisions of this Code.
Statute	Clause Firstly of the section mentions 'Death' at one of such punishments.
Statute	Regarding 'death' as a punishment, the authors of the Code say: "We are convinced that it ought to be very sparingly inflicted, and we propose to employ it only in cases where either murder or the highest offence against the <ORG> has been committed."
Statute	Accordingly, under the Code , death is the punishment that must be awarded for murder by a person under sentence of imprisonment for life (Sec.
RatioOfTheDecision	303).
RatioOfTheDecision	This apart, the Penal Code prescribed 'death' as an alternative punishment to which the offenders may be sentenced, for the following seven offences:  (1) Waging was against the Government of India.
Statute	(S. 121) (2) Abetting mutiny actually committed (S. 132) (3) Giving or fabricating false evidence upon which an innocent person suffers death.
Statute	(S. 194) (4) Murder which may be punished with death or life imprisonment (S. 302) (5) Abetment of suicide of a m inor on insane, or intoxicated person.
Statute	(S. 305) (6) Dacoity accompanied with murder.
Statute	(S. 396) (7) Attempt to murder by a person under sentence of imprisonment for life if hurt is caused.
Precedent	(S. 307)  22.
Precedent	In the instant cases, the impugned provision of the Indian Penal Code is Section 302 which says: "Whoever commits murder shall be punished with death, or imprisonment for life, and also be liable to fine".
Precedent	The related provisions are contained in Sections 299 and 300 .
Precedent	Section 299 defines 'culpable homicide'.
Precedent	Section 300 defines 'murder'.
Precedent	Its material part runs as follows:  Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death, of Secondly, - If it is done with me intention of causing such bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause death of the person to whom the harm is caused, or Thirdly, - If it is done with the intention of causing bodily injury to any person and the bodily injury intended to be  inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, or Fourthly, - If the person committing the act knows that it is so imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause death, or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
Precedent	23.
Precedent	The first contention of <NAME> is that the provision of death penalty in Section 302 , Penal Code offends Article 19 of the Constitution.
Precedent	It ii submitted that the right to live is basic to the enjoyment of all the six freedoms guaranteed in Clauses (a) to (e) and (g) of Article 19(1) of the Constitution and death penalty puts an end to all these freedoms; that since death penalty serves no social purpose and its value as a deterrent remains unproven and it defiles the dignity of the individual so solemnly vouchsafed in the Preamble of the Constitution, its imposition must be regarded as an 'unreasonable restriction' amounting to total pro hibition, on the six freedoms guaranteed in Article 19(1).
Precedent	24.
Statute	Article 19 , as in force today, reads as under:  19(1).
Statute	All citizens shall have the right-  (a) to freedom of speech and expression;  (b) to assemble peaceably and without arms;  (c) to form associations or unions;  (d) to move freely throughout the territory of India;  (e) to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India;  (f) ...;  (g) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.
Statute	(2) Nothing in Sub-clause (a) of Clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the <ORG> from making any law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the <ORG>, friendly relations with foreign <ORG>s, public order, decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence.
Statute	(3) Nothing in Sub-clause (b) of the sai d clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the <ORG> from making any law imposing, in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order, reasonable restriction!
Statute	on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause.
Statute	(4) Nothing in Sub-clause (c) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the <ORG> from making any law imposing, in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order or morality, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause.
Statute	(5) Nothing fan Sub-clauses (d) and (e) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the <ORG> from making any law imposing, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of any of the rights conferred by the said sub-clauses either in the interests of the general public or for the protection of the interests of <ORG> ribe.
Statute	(6) Nothing in Sub-clause (g) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the <ORG> from making any law imposing, in the interests of the general public, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause, and in particular, nothing in the said sub-clause, shall affect me operation of any existing law in so far as it relates to, or prevent the <ORG> from-making any law relating to,-  (i) the professional or technical qualifications necessary for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business, or  (ii) the carrying on by the <ORG>, or by a corporation owned or controlled by the <ORG>, of any trade, business, industry or sex-vice, whether to the exclusion, complete on partial, of citizens or otherwise.
RatioOfTheDecision	25.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be seen that the first part of the Article declares the rights in Clause (1) comprising of six Sub-clauses namely, (a) to (e) and (g).
RatioOfTheDecision	The second part of the Article hi its  five Cls.
RatioOfTheDecision	(2) to (6) specifies the limits up to which the abridgement of the rights declared in one or more of the Sub-clauses of Clause (1), may be permitted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Broadly speaking, Article 19 is intended to protect the rights to the freedoms specifically enumerated in the six Sub-clauses of Clause (1) against <ORG> action, other than in the legitimate exercise of its power to regulate these rights in the public interest relating to heads specified in Clauses (2) to (6).
RatioOfTheDecision	The six fundamental freedoms guaranteed under Article 19(1) are not absolute rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	Firstly, they are subject to inherent restraints stemming from the reciprocal obligation of one member of a civil society to so use his rights as not to infringe or injure similar rights of another.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is on the principle sic uteri tuo ut alienum non laedas.
RulingByPresentCourt	Secondly, under Cls.
RatioOfTheDecision	(2) to (6) these rights have been expressly made subject to the power of the <ORG> to impose reasonable restrictions, which may even extend to prohibition, on the exercise of those righ ts.
RatioOfTheDecision	26.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power, if properly exercised, is itself a safe-guard of the freedoms guaranteed in Clause (1).
RatioOfTheDecision	The conferment of this power is founded on the fundamental truth mat uncontrolled liberty entirely freed from restraint, degenerates into a license, leading to anarchy and chaos; that libertine pursuit of liberty, absolutely free, and free for all, may mean liberticide for all.
Precedent	"Liberty has, therefore," as Justice <NAME> put it, "to be limited in order to be effectively possessed.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	It is important to note that whereas Article 21 expressly deals with the right to life and personal liberty, Article 19 does not The right to life is not one of the rights mentioned in Article 19(1).
Precedent	28.
Precedent	The first point under Question (1) to be considered is whether Article 19 is at all applicable for judging the validity of the impugned provision in Section 302 , Penal Code .
Precedent	29.
Precedent	As rightly pointed out by <NAME>, the condition precedent for the applicability of Article 19 is that the activity whic h the impugned law prohibits and penalises, must be within the purview and protection of Article 19(1).
Precedent	Thus considered, can any one say that he has a legal right of fundamental freedom under Article 19(1) to practise the profession of a hired assassin or to form associations or unions or engage in a conspiracy with the object of committing murders or dacoities?
Precedent	The argument that the provisions of the Penal Code , prescribing death sentence as an alternative penalty for murder have to be tested on the ground of Article 19 , appears to proceed on the fallacy that the freedoms guaranteed by Article 19(1) are absolute freedoms and they cannot be curtailed by law imposing reasonable restrictions, which may amount to total prohibition.
Precedent	Such an argument was advanced before <ORG> in the <CITATION_212098> 1957 SCR 874 at p. 920.
Precedent	In that case the constitutional validity of certain provisions of the Bombay Lotteries and Prim Competition Control Act, 1952, as amended by Bombay Act No.
Precedent	XXX of 1952, was c hallenged on the ground, inter alia, that it infringes the fundamental rights of the promoters of such competitions under Article 19(1)(g ), to carry on their trade of business and that the restrictions imposed by the said Act cannot possibly be supported at reasonable restrictions in the interest of the general public permissible under Article 19(b).
Precedent	It was contended that the words "trade" of "business" or "commerce" in Sub-clause (g) of Article 19(a) should be read in their widest amplitude as any activity which is undertaken or carried on with a view to earning profit, since there is nothing in Article 19(1)(g) which may qualify or cut down the meaning of the critical words; that there is no justification for excluding from the meaning of those words activities which may be looked upon with disfavour by the <ORG> or the <ORG> as injurious to public morality or public interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	Speaking for <ORG>, <NAME>, <NAME> repelled this contention, in these terms:  On this argument it will follow th at criminal activities undertaken and carried on with a view to earning profit will be protected as fundamental rights until they are restricted by law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus there will be a guaranteed right to carry on a business of hiring out goondas to commit assault or even murder, or house-breaking, or selling obscene pictures, or trafficking in women and so on until the law curbs or stops such activities.
RatioOfTheDecision	This appears to us to be completely unrealistic and incongruous.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have no doubt that there are certain activities which can under no circumstance be regarded as trade or business or commerce although the usual forms and instruments are employed therein.
RatioOfTheDecision	To exclude those activities from the meaning of those words is not to cut down their meaning at all but to say only that they are not within the true meaning of those words.
RatioOfTheDecision	This approach to the problem still holds the field.
Precedent	The observations in Chamarbaugwala, extracted above, were recently quoted with approval by <NAME>, J., while delivering the judgment  of the <ORG> in <CITATION_1547238> .
Precedent	30.
Precedent	<CITATION_1857950> , all the six learned Judges constituting the <ORG> held that punitive detention or imprisonment awarded at punishment after conviction for an offence under the Indian Penal Code is outside the cope of Article 19 , although this conclusion was reached by them by adopting more of less different approaches to the problem.
Precedent	31.
Precedent	It was contended on behalf of <NAME> that since the preventive detention order results in the detention of the detenu in a cell, his rights specified in Clauses (a) to (e) and (g) of Article 19(1) have been infringed.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME> rejected this argument, inter alia, on these grounds:  (i) Argument would have been equally applicable to a case of punitive detention, and its acceptance would lead to absurd results.
RatioOfTheDecision	"In spite of the saving Clauses (2) to (6), permitting abridgement of the rights connected with each other, punitive detention under several sections of the Penal Code , e. g. for theft, cheating, forgery and  even ordinary assault, will be illegal, ( because the reasonable restrictions in the interest of "public order" mentioned in Cls.
RatioOfTheDecision	(2) to (4) of the Article would not cover these offences and many other crimes under the Penal Code which injure specific individuals and do not affect the community or the public at large).
RatioOfTheDecision	Unless such conclusion necessarily follows from the article, it is obvious that such construction should be avoided.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my opinion, such result is clearly not the outcome of the Constitution.
Precedent	(The underlined words within brackets supplied.)
Precedent	(At page 100 of the Report).
Precedent	(ii) Judged by the test of direct and indirect effect on the rights referred to in Article 19(1 ), the Penal Code is not a law imposing restrictions on these rights.
Precedent	The test is that "the legislation to be examined must be directly in respect of one of the rights mentioned in the sub-clauses.
Precedent	If there is a legislation directly attempting to control a citizen's freedom of speech or expression, of his right to assemble peaceably  and without arms, etc., the question whether that legislation is saved by the relevant saving clause of Article 19 will arise.
Precedent	If, however, the legislation is not directly in respect of any of these subjects, but as a result of the operation of other legislation, for instance, for punitive or preventive detention, his right under any of these sub-clauses is abridged, the question of the application of Art 19 does not arise.
Precedent	The true approach is only to consider the directness of the legislation and not what will be the result of the detention otherwise valid, on the mode of the detenu's life."
Precedent	(Pages 100-101).
Precedent	(iii) "The contents and subject-matter, of Articles 19 and 21 are thus not the same..." (Page 105. "
Precedent	Article 19(5) not apply to a substantive law depriving a citizen of personal liberty," " Article 19(1) does not purport to cover all aspects of liberty of personal liberty.
Precedent	Personal liberty would primarily mean liberty of the physical body.
Precedent	The rights given under Article 19(1) do not directly come unde r that description.
Precedent	In that Article only certain phases of liberty are dealt with".
Precedent	(Page 106) "In my opinion therefore, Article 19 should be read as a separate complete Article".
Precedent	(Page 107)  33.
Precedent	<NAME> also, opined that lawful deprivation of personal liberty on conviction and sentence for committing a crime, or by a lawful order of preventive detention is "not within the purview of Article 19 at all, but is dealt with by the succeeding Articles 20 and 21."
Precedent	(Page 192).
Precedent	In tune with <NAME>, <NAME>, the learned Judge observed: "A construction which would bring within Article 19 imprisonment in punishment of a crime committed or in prevention of a crime threatened would, as it seems to me, make a reductio ad absurdum of that provision.
Precedent	If imprisonment were to be regarded as a 'restriction' of the right mentioned in Article 19(1)(d ), it would equally be a restriction on the rights mentioned by the other Sub-clauses of Clause (1), with the result that all penal laws providing for imprisonment as a mo de of punishment would have to run the gauntlet of Cls.
Precedent	(2) to (6) before their validity could be accepted.
Precedent	For instance, the law which imprisons for theft would on that view, fall to be justified under Clause (2) as a law sanctioning restriction of freedom of speech and expression," (Page 192).
Precedent	Article 19 confers the rights therein specified only on the citizen of India, while Article 21 extends the protection of life and personal liberty to all persons-citizens and non-citizens alike.
Precedent	Thus, the two Articles do not operate in a conterminous field.
Precedent	(Page 193).
Precedent	(Personal liberty) was used in Article 21 as a sense which excludes the freedoms dealt in Article 19....   34.
Precedent	Rejecting the argument of the Attorney General, the learned Judge held that Clauses (4) to (7) of Article 22 do not form a complete Code and that "the language of Article 21 is perfectly general and covers deprivation of personal liberty or incarceration, both for punitive and preventive reasons."
Precedent	(Page 207).
Precedent	35.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., however, adopte d a different approach.
Precedent	In his judgment, "an examination of the provisions of Article 22 clearly suggests that the intention was to make it self-contained as regards the law of preventive detention and that the validity of a law on the subject to preventive detention cannot be examined or controlled either by the provisions of Article 21 or by the provisions of Article 19(5)."
Precedent	(Page 229).
Precedent	36.
Precedent	<NAME>, J. explained the relative scope of the Articles in this group thus: "To me it seems that Article 19 of the Constitution gives a list of individual liberties and prescribes in the various clauses the restraints that may be placed upon them by law so that they may not conflict with public welfare or general morality.
Precedent	On the other hand, Articles 20, 21 and 22 are primarily concerned with penal enactments or other laws under which personal safety or liberty of persons could be taken away in the interests of the society and they set down the limits within which the <ORG> control should be exercised.
Precedent	In my opinion,  the group of Articles 20 to 22 embody the entire protection guaranteed by the Constitution in relation to deprivation of life and personal liberty both with regard to substantive as Well as to procedural law."
Precedent	(Page 255).
Precedent	The only proper way of avoiding these anomalies is to interpret the two provisions (Articles 19 and 21) as applying to different subjects.
Precedent	It is also unnecessary to enter into a discussion on the question...as to whether Article 22 by itself is a self-contained Code with regard to the law of Preventive Detention.
Precedent	(Page 257).
Precedent	37.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., also, rejected the argument that the whole of the Indian Penal Code is a law imposing reasonable restriction on the rights conferred by Article 19(1 ), with these observations (at page 303):  To say that every crime undermines the security of the <ORG> and, therefore, every section of the Indian Penal Code , irrespective of whether it has any reference to speech or expression, is a law within the meaning of this clause is wholly unconvincing and betra ys only a vain and forlorn attempt to find an explanation for meeting the argument that any conviction by a Court of law must necessarily infringe Article 19(1)(a).
Precedent	There can be no getting away from the fact that a detention as a result of a conviction impairs the freedom of speech far beyond what is permissible under Clause (2) of Article 19.
Precedent	Likewise, a detention on lawful conviction impairs each of the other personal rights mentioned in Sub-clauses (3) to (6).
Precedent	The argument that every section of the Indian Penal Code irrespective of whether it has any reference to any of the rights referred to in Sub-clauses (b) to (e) and (g) is a law imposing reasonable restriction on those several rights has not even the merit of plausibility.
Precedent	There can be no doubt that a detention as a result of lawful conviction must necessarily impair the fundamental personal rights guaranteed by Article 19(1) far beyond what is permissible under Clauses (2) to (6) of that article and yet nobody can think of questioning the validity o f the detention or of the section of the Indian Penal Code under which the sentence was passed.
Precedent	(ii) <NAME>, J. then gave an additional reason as to why validity of punitive detention or of the sections of the Penal Code under which the sentence was passed, cannot be challenged on the ground of Article 19 , thus:  Because the freedom of his person having been lawfully taken away, the convict ceases to be entitled to exercise...any of the...rights protected by Clause (1) of Article 19.
Precedent	(iii) The learned Judge also held that " Article 19 protects some of the important attributes of personal liberty as independent rights and the expression 'personal liberty' has been used in Article 21 as a compendious term including within its meaning all the varieties of rights which go to make op the personal liberties of men."
Precedent	(Page 299)  38.
Precedent	<NAME> dissented from the majority.
Precedent	In his opinion: "It cannot be said that Articles 19, 20, 21 and 22 do not to some extent overlap each other.
Precedent	The case of a person who is convi cted of an offence will come under Articles 20 and 21 and also under Article 22 so far as his arrest and detention in custody before trial are concerned.
Precedent	Preventive detention, which is dealt with in Article 22 , also amounts to be privation of personal liberty which is referred to in Article 19(1)(d)."
Precedent	(Page 148).
Precedent	39.
Precedent	<NAME> held that since preventive detention unlike punitive detention, directly infringes the right under Article 19(1)(d ), it must pass the test of Clause (5).
Precedent	According to the learned Judge, only those laws are required to be tested on the anvil of Article 19 which directly restrict any of the rights guaranteed in Article 19(1).
Precedent	Applying this test (of direct and indirect effect) to the provisions of the Indian Penal Code , the learned Judge pointed out mat the Code "does not primarily or necessarily impose restrictions on the freedom of movement, and it is not correct to say that it is a law imposing restrictions on the right to move freely.
Precedent	Its primary object is to punish crime and n ot to restrict movement The punishment may consist in imprisonment OF a pecuniary penalty.
Precedent	If it consists in a pecuniary penalty, it obviously involves no restriction on movement; but if it consists in imprisonment, mere is a restriction on movement.
Precedent	This restraint is imposed not under a law imposing restrictions on movement but under a law defining crime and making it punishable.
Precedent	The punishment is correlated with the violation of some other person's right and not with the right of movement possessed by the offender himself.
Precedent	In my opinion, therefore, the Indian Penal Code does not come within the ambit of the words 'law imposing restriction on the right to move freely'."
Precedent	(Pages 145-146).
Precedent	40.
Precedent	In applying the above test, which was the same as adopted by Kania, <NAME>, <NAME>, J. reached a conclusion contrary to that reached by the Chief Justice, on the following reasoning:  Punitive detention is however essentially different from preventive detention.
Precedent	A person is punitively detained only after trial for comm itting a crime and after his guilt has been established in a competent court of justice.
Precedent	A person so convicted can take his case to <ORG> and sometimes bring it to this Court also; and he can in the course of the proceedings connected with his trial take all pleas available to him to-eluding the plea of want of jurisdiction of the Court of trial and the invalidity of the law under which he has been prosecuted.
Precedent	The final judgment in the criminal trial will thus constitute a serious obstacle in his way if he chooses to assert even after his conviction that his right under Article 19(1)(d) has been violated.
Precedent	But a person who is preventively detained has not to face such an obstacle whatever other obstacle may be in his way.
Precedent	(Page 146)  41.
Precedent	We have copiously extracted from the judgments in <NAME> case, to show that all the propositions propounded, arguments and reasons employed or approaches adopted by the learned Judges in that case, in reaching the conclusion that the Indian Penal Code , p articularly those of its provisions which do not have a direct impact on the rights conferred by Article 19(1 ), is not a law imposing restrictions on those rights, have not been overruled or rendered bad by the subsequent pronouncements of this <ORG> in Bank Nationalization case or in <NAME> case .
Precedent	For instance, the proposition laid down by <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ.
Precedent	that the Indian Penal Code particularly those of its provisions which cannot be justified on the ground of reasonableness with reference to any of the specified heads, such as "public order" in Clauses (2), (3) and (4), is not a law imposing restrictions on any of the rights conferred by Article 19(1 ), still holds the field.
Precedent	Indeed, the reasoning, explicit or implicit, in the judgments of <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> that such a construction which treats every section of the Indian Penal Code as a law imposing 'restriction' on the rights in Article 19(1 ), will lead to absurdity is u nassailable.
Precedent	There are several offences under the Penal Code , such as theft, cheating, ordinary assault, which do not violate or affect 'public order,' but only 'law and order'.
Precedent	These offences injure only specific individuals as distinguished from the public at large.
Precedent	It is by now settled that 'public order' means 'even tempo of the life of the community'.
Precedent	That being so, even as murders do not disturb or affect 'public order".
Precedent	Some murders may be of purely private significance and the injury or harm resulting therefrom affects only specific individuals, and, consequently, such murders may not be covered by "public order" within the contemplation of Clauses (2), (3) and (4) of Article 19.
Precedent	Such murders do not lead to public disorder but to disorder simpliciter.
Precedent	Yet, no rational being can say that punishment of such murderers is not in the general public interest.
Precedent	It may be noted that genera] public interest is not specified as a head in Clauses (2) to (4) on which restriction on the rights mentioned in Clause  (1) of the Article may be justified.
Precedent	42.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true, as was pointed out by <NAME>, J.
RatioOfTheDecision	(as he then was) in Dr. <NAME>'s case and in several other decisions that followed it, that the real distinction between the areas of 'law and order' and 'public order' lies not merely in the nature or quality of the act, but in the degree and extent Violent crimes similar in nature, but committed in different contexts and circumstances might cause different reactions.
RatioOfTheDecision	A murder committed in given circumstances may cause only a slight tremor, the wave length of which does not extend beyond the parameters of law and order.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another murder committed in different context and circumstances may unleash a tidal wave of such intensity, gravity and magnitude, that its impact throws out of gear the even flow of lite.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nonetheless, the fact remains that tat such murders which do not affect "public order", even the provision for life imprisonment in Section 302 , Indian Penal Code , as an alternative punishment, would no t be justifiable under Cls.
RatioOfTheDecision	(2), (3) and (4) as a reasonable restriction in the interest of 'public order'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a construction must, therefore, be avoided.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus construed, Article 19 will be attracted only to such laws, the provisions of which are capable of being tested under Cls.
Precedent	(2) to (5) of Article 19.
Precedent	43.
Precedent	This proposition was recently (1975) reiterated in <NAME> v. <ORG> of West Bengal .
Precedent	In accord with this line of reasoning in <NAME> case <ORG> of this Court in <NAME> case restated the principle for the applicability of Article 19 by drawing a distinction between a law of preventive detention and a law providing punishment for commission of crimes, thus:  Constitution has conferred rights under Article 19 and also adopted preventive detention to prevent the greater evil of elements imperilling the security, the safety of a <ORG> and the welfare of the nation.
Precedent	It is not possible to think that a person who is detained will yet be free to move or assemble or form as sociation or unions or have the right to reside in any part of India or have the freedom of speech or expression.
Precedent	Suppose a person is convicted of an offence of cheating and prosecuted (and imprisoned) after trial, it is not open to say that the imprisonment should be tested with reference to Article 19 for its reasonableness.
Precedent	A law which attracts Article 19 therefore must be such as is capable of being tested to be reasonable under Clauses (2) to (5) of Article 19.
Precedent	(emphasis and parenthesis supplied).
Precedent	44.
Precedent	The last sentence which has been underlined by us, appears to lend implicit approval to the rule of construction adopted by the majority of the learned Judge's in <NAME> case whereby they excluded from the purview of Article 19 certain provisions of the Indian Penal Code providing punishment for certain offences which could not be tested on the specific grounds embodied in Clauses (2) to (5) of that Article.
Precedent	This proposition enunciated in <NAME> case is only a product of the application o f the basic canon that a construction which would lead to absurdity, should be eschewed.
Precedent	45.
Precedent	In R.C.
Precedent	Cooper v. Union of India (popularly known as <ORG> case), the majority adopted the twofold test for determining as to when a law violated fundamental rights, namely: "(1) It is not the object of the authority making the law impairing the right of a citizen, nor the form of action that determines the protection he can claim.
Precedent	(2) it is the effect of the law and of the action upon the right which attract the jurisdiction of the <ORG> to grant relief.
Precedent	The direct operation of the act upon the rights forms the real test".
Precedent	46.
Precedent	<CITATION_1766147> (ibid), <NAME>, J. explained the scope of the same test by saying that a law or an order made thereunder will be hit by Article 19 , if the direct and inevitable consequence of such law or order is to abridge or take away any one or more of the freedoms guaranteed by Article 19(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	If the effect and operation of the statute by itself, upon a person's fundam ental rights is remote or dependent upon "factors which may or may not come into play" then such statute is not ultra vires on the ground of its being violative of that fundamental right.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, J. described this proposition as "the doctrine of intended and real effect"; while <NAME>, J.
RatioOfTheDecision	(as he then was) called it "the test of proximate effect and operation of the statute".
RatioOfTheDecision	47.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question is, whether <NAME> and <NAME> have given a complete go-by to the 'test of direct and indirect effect,' sometimes described as 'form and object test' or 'pith and substance rule', which was adopted by <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, J. in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, the answer to this question cannot be in the affirmative.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the first place, there is nothing much in the name.
RatioOfTheDecision	As <NAME>, J. put it in <NAME> case, 1940 FCR 188, such rules of interpretation were evolved only as a matter of reasonableness and common sense and out of the necessity of satisfactorily solving conf licts from the inevitable overlapping of subjects in any distribution of powers.
Precedent	By the same yardstick of common sense, the 'pith and substance rule' was applied to resolve the question of the constitutionality of a law assailed on the ground of its being violative of a fundamental right.
Precedent	48.
Precedent	Secondly, a survey of the decisions of this <ORG> since <NAME>, shows that the criterion of directness which is the essence of the test of direct and indirect effect, has never been totally abandoned.
Precedent	Only the mode of its application has been modified and its scope amplified by judicial activism to maintain its efficacy for solving new constitutional problems in tune with evolving concepts of rights and obligations in strident democracy.
Precedent	49.
Precedent	The test of direct and indirect effect adopted in <NAME> was approved by the Full <ORG> in <CITATION_40472258> 1951 SCR 451.
Precedent	Therein, <NAME>, J. quoted with approval the passages (i) and (ii) (which we have extracted earlier) from the Judgment of Kania, C. J.
Precedent	Although <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ.
Precedent	differed on the merits, there was no dissent on this point among all the learned Judges.
Precedent	50.
Precedent	The first decision, which though purporting to follow <NAME>, C.J.'s.
Precedent	enunciation in <NAME>, imperceptibly added another dimension to the test of directness, was <CITATION_891756> 1959 SCR 12.
Precedent	In that case, the constitutional validity of the Working Journalists (Condition's of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act , 1955, and the legality of the decision of <ORG>, constituted thereunder, were challenged.
Precedent	The impugned Act, which had for its object the regulation of the conditions of service of working journalists and other persons employed in newspaper establishments, provided,' inter alia, for the payment of gratuity to a working journalist who had been in continuous service for a certain period.
Precedent	It also regulated hours of work and leave and provided for retrenchment compensation.
Precedent	Section 9(1) laid down the principles that <ORG> was to follow in fixing the ra tes of wages of working journalists.
Precedent	51.
Precedent	One of the contentions of the petitioners in that case was that the impugned Act violated their fundamental rights under Articles 19(1)(a), 19(1)(g), 14 and 32 of the Constitution and that the decision of <ORG> fixing the rates and scales of wages which imposed too heavy a financial burden on the industry and spelled its total ruin, was illegal and void.
Precedent	It was contended by the learned Attorney-General in that case that since the impugned legislation was not a direct legislation on the subject of freedom of speech and expression.
Precedent	Article 19(1)(a) would have no application, the test being not the effect or result of legislation but its subject-matter.
Precedent	In support of his contention, he relied upon the observations on this point of <NAME>, C. j. in <NAME>.
Precedent	It was further urged that the object of the impugned Act was only to regulate certain conditions of service of working journalists and other persons employed in the newspaper establishments and not to take  away or abridge the freedom of speech or expression enjoyed by the petitioners and, therefore, the impugned Act could not come within the prohibition of Article 19(1)(a) read with Article 32 of the Constitution.
Precedent	52.
Precedent	On the other hand, the petitioners took their stand on a passage in the decision of <ORG> in Minnesota Ex Rel.
Precedent	<NAME>, (1930) 283 US 697 at p. 708, which was as under With respect to these contentions it is enough to say that in passing upon constitutional questions the <ORG> has regard to substance and not to mere matters of form, and that, in accordance with familiar principles, the statute must be tested by its operation and effect".
Argument	It was further submitted that in all such cases, the <ORG> has to look behind the names, forms and appearances to discover the true character and nature of the legislation.
Argument	Thus considered, proceeded the argument, the Act by laving a direct and preferential burden on the press, would tend to curtail the circulation, narrow the scope of  dissemination of information and fetter the petitioners' freedom to choose the means of exercising their rights of free speech (which includes the freedom of the press).
Argument	It was further submitted that those newspaper employers who were marginally situated may not be able to bear the strain and have to disappear after closing down their establishments.
Precedent	53.
Precedent	<NAME> Bhagwati.
Precedent	J. who delivered the unanimous Judgment of <ORG>, after noting that the object of the impunged legislation is to provide for the amelioration of the conditions of the workmen in the newspaper industry, overruled this contention of the employers, thus:  That, however would be a consequence which would be extraneous and not within the contemplation of the legislature.
Precedent	It could therefore hardly be urged that the possible effect of the impact of these measures in conceivable cases would vitiate the legislation as such.
Precedent	All the consequences which have been visualized In this behalf by the petitioners, viz., the tendency to curtai l circulation and thereby narrow the scope of dissemination of information, fetters on the petitioner' freedom to choose the means of exercising the right, likelihood of the independence of the press being undermined by having to seek government aid; the imposition of penalty on the petitioners' right to choose the instruments for exercising the freedom or compelling them to seek alternative media, etc., would be remote and depend upon various factors which may or may not come into play.
Precedent	Unless these were the direct or inevitable consequences of the measures enacted in the impugned Act, it would not be possible to strike down the legislation as having that effect and operation.
Precedent	(emphasis added) The learned Judge further observed that the impugned Act could be "legitimately characterised as a measure which affects the press", but its " intention or the proximate effect and operation" was not such as would take away or abridge the right of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed in Article 19(1)(a ), there fore, it could not be held invalid on that ground.
Precedent	The impugned decision of <ORG>, however, was held to be ultra vires the Act and contrary to the principles of natural justice.
Precedent	54.
Precedent	It may be observed at this place that the manner in which the test of direct, and indirect effect was applied by <NAME>, was not very different from the mode in which <NAME> applied it to punitive detention as punishment after conviction for an offence under the Indian Penal Code .
Precedent	<NAME>.
Precedent	J., did not discard the test adopted by <NAME>, C.J., in A.K.
Precedent	Gopalan, in its entirety: he merely extended the application of the criterion of directness to the operation and effect of the impugned legislation.
Precedent	55.
Precedent	Again, in Sakal Papers (P).
Precedent	<CITATION_1902038> .
Precedent	this Court, while considering the constitutional validity of the Newspaper (Price and Page) Act , 1956, and Daily Newspaper (Price and Page) Order, 1960. held that the ''direct and immediate" effect of the impugned Order would be to restrain a newsp aper from publishing any number of pages for carrying its news and views, which it has a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) and, therefore, the Order was violative of the right of the newspapers guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a ), and as such, invalid.
Precedent	In this case, also, the emphasis had shifted from the object and subject-matter of the impugned <ORG> action to its direct and immediate effect.
Precedent	56.
Precedent	<CITATION_1643138> .
Precedent	an order prohibiting the publication of the evidence of a witness in a defamation case, passed by a learned Judge (<NAME>, J.)
Argument	of <ORG>, was impugned on the ground that it violated the petitioners' right to free speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a).
Argument	<NAME>, C. J., (<NAME>, <NAME>.
Argument	<NAME> and <NAME>.
Argument	JJ., concurring) repelled this contention, with these illuminating observations:  The argument that the impugned order affects the fundamental rights of the petitioners under Article 19(1 ), is based on a complete misconception about the true natur e and character of judicial process and of judicial decisions.
Precedent	When a Judge deals with matters brought before him for his adjudication, he first decides questions of fact on which the parties are at issue, and then applies the relevant law to the said facts.
Precedent	Whether the findings of fact recorded by the Judge are right or wrong, and whether the conclusion of law drawn by him suffers from any infirmity, can be considered and decided if the party aggrieved by the decision of the Judge takes the matter up before the appellate Court.
Precedent	But it is singularly inappropriate to assume that a judicial decision pronounced by a Judge of competent jurisdiction in or in relation to matter brought before him for adjudication can affect the fundamental rights of the citizens under Article 19(1).
Precedent	What the judicial decision purports to do is to decide the controversy between the parties brought before the court and nothing more.
Precedent	If this basic and essential aspect of the judicial process is borne in mind, it would be plain that th e judicial verdict pronounced by court in or in relation to a matter brought before it for its decision cannot be said to affect the fundamental rights of citizens under Article 19(1).
Precedent	It is well settled that in examining the validity of legislation, it is legitimate to consider whether the impugned legislation is a legislation directly in respect of the subject covered by any particular article of the Constitution, or touches the said article only incidentally or indirectly.
Precedent	If the test of direct effect and object which is sometimes described as the pith and substance test, is thus applied in considering the validity of legislation, at would not be inappropriate to apply the same test to judicial decisions like the one with which we are concerned in the present proceedings.
Precedent	As we have already indicated, the impugned order was directly concerned with giving such protection to the witness as was thought to be necessary in order to obtain true evidence in the case with a view to do Justice between the partie s. If, incidentally, as a result of this order, the petitioners were not able to report what they heard in court, that cannot be said to make the impugned order invalid under Article 19(1)(a).
Precedent	57.
Precedent	We have already mentioned briefly how the test of directness was developed and reached its culmination in <ORG> case and <NAME> case.
Precedent	58.
Precedent	From the above conspectus, it is clear that the test of direct and indirect effect was not scrapped.
Precedent	Indeed, there is no dispute that the test of 'pith and substance' of the subject-matter and of direct and of incidental effect of legislation is a very useful test to determine the question of legislative competence, i.e., in ascertaining whether an Act falls under one Entry while incidentally encroaching upon another Entry.
Precedent	Even for determining the validity of a legislation on the ground of infringement of fundamental rights, the subject-matter and the object of the legislation are not altogether irrelevant.
Precedent	For instance, if the subject-matter of the l egislation directly covers any of the fundamental freedoms mentioned in Article 19(1 ), it must pass the test of reasonableness under the relevant head in Clauses (2) to (6) of that Article.
Precedent	If the legislation does not directly deal with any of the rights in Article 19(1) that may not conclude the enquiry.
Precedent	It will have to be ascertained further whether by its direct and immediate operation, the impugned legislation abridges any of the rights enumerated in Article 19(1).
Precedent	59.
Precedent	In <NAME>, .
Precedent	<NAME>, J. in his dissenting judgment referred with approval to the test as expounded in <ORG>.
Precedent	He further observed that "the 'pith and substance' test, though not strictly appropriate, must serve a useful purpose in the process of deciding whether the provisions In question which work some interference with the freedom of speech, are essentially regulatory in character".
Precedent	60.
Precedent	From a survey of the cases noticed above, a comprehensive test which can be formulated, may be restated as under Does the impugn ed law, in its pith and substance, whatever may be its form, and object, deal with any of the fundamental rights conferred by Article 19(1)?
Precedent	If it does, does it abridge or abrogate any of those rights?
Precedent	And even if it does not, in its pith and substance, deal with any of the fundamental rights conferred by Article 19(1) is the direct and inevitable effect of the impugned law such as to abridge or abrogate any of those rights ?
Precedent	The mere fact that impugned law incidentally, remotely or collaterally has the effect of abridging or abrogating those rights, will not satisfy the test.
Precedent	If the answer to the above queries be in the affirmative, the impugned law in order to be valid, must pass the test of reasonableness under Article 19.
Precedent	But if the impact of the law on any of the rights under Clause (1) of Article 19 is merely incidental, indirect, remote or collateral and is dependent upon factors which may or may not come into play, the anvil of Article 19 will not be available for judging its validity,  61.
Precedent	Now, let  us apply this test to the provisions of the Penal Code , in question.
Precedent	Section 299 defines 'culpable homicide' and Section 300 defines culpable homicide amounting to murder.
Precedent	Section 302 prescribes death or imprisonment for life as penalty for murder.
Precedent	It cannot, reasonably or rationally, be contended that any of the rights mentioned in Article 19(1) of the Constitution confers the freedom to commit murder or, for the matter of that, the freedom to commit any offence whatsoever.
Precedent	Therefore, penal laws, that is to say, laws which define offences and prescribe punishment for the commission of offences do not attract the application of Article 19(1).
Precedent	We cannot, of course, say that the object of penal laws is generally such as not to involve any viola-Bon of the rights conferred by Article 19(1) because after the decision of this <ORG> in [he Bank Nationalisation case the theory, that the object and form of the State action alone determine the extent of protection that may be claimed by an individual and that the eff ect of the <ORG> action on the fundamental, right of the individual is irrelevant, stands discredited.
Precedent	But the point of the matter is that, in pith and substance, penal laws do not deal with the subject matter of rights enshrined in Article 19(1).
Precedent	That again is not enough for the purpose of deciding upon the applicability of Article 19 because as the test formulated by us above shows, even if a law does not, in its pith and substance, deal with any of the fundamental rights conferred by Article 19(1 ), if the direct and inevitable effect of the law is such as to abridge or abrogate any of those rights, Article 19(1) shall have been attracted.
Precedent	It would then become necessary to test the validity of even a penal law on the touchstone of that Article.
Precedent	On this latter aspect of the matter, we are of the opinion that the deprivation of freedom consequent upon an order of conviction and sentence is not a direct and inevitable consequence of the penal law but is merely incidental to the order of conviction and sentenc e which may or may not come into play, that is to say, which may or may not be passed.
Precedent	Considering therefore the test formulated by us in its dual aspect, we are of the opinion that Section 302 of the Penal Code does not have to stand the test of Article 19(1) of the Constitution.
Precedent	62.
Precedent	This is particularly true of crimes inherently vicious and pernicious, which under the English Common Law were classified as crimes <NAME> in se as distinguished from crimes <NAME> prohibita.
RatioOfTheDecision	Crimes <NAME> in se embrace acts immoral or wrong in themselves, such as, murder, rape, arson, burglary, larceny (robbery and dacoity;) while crimes <NAME> prohibita embrace things prohibited by statute as infringing on others' rights, though no moral turpitude attaches to such crimes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such acts constitute crimes only because they are so prohibited.
Precedent	(See Words and Phrases, Permanent Edition, Vol.
Precedent	10).
Precedent	While crimes <NAME> in se do not per se, or in operation directly and inevitably impinge on the rights under Art 19(1), cases under the other category  of crimes are conceivable where the law relating to them directly restricts or abridges such rights.
Precedent	The illustration given by <NAME> will make the point clear.
Precedent	Suppose, a law is enacted which provides that it shall be an offence to level any criticism, whatever, of the Government established by law and makes a further provision prescribing five years' imprisonment as punishment for such an offence.
Precedent	Such a law (i. e. its provision defining the offence) will directly and inevitably impinge upon the right guaranteed under 'clause' (a) of Article 19(1).
Precedent	Therefore, to be valid, it must pass the test of reasonableness embodied in Clause (2) of the Article.
Precedent	But this cannot be said in regard to the provisions of the Penal Code with which we are concerned.
Precedent	63.
Precedent	Assuming arguendo, that the provisions of the Penal Code , particularly those providing death penalty as an alternative punishment for murder, have to satisfy the requirements of reasonableness and public interest under Article 19 the golden strand of w hich according to the ratios of <NAME> runs through the basic structure of Article 21 also- the further questions to be determined, in this connection, will be: On whom will the onus of satisfying the requirements under Article 19 , lie ?
Precedent	Will such onus lie on the <ORG> or the person challenging its validity ?
Precedent	And what will be the nature of the onus ?
Precedent	64.
Precedent	With regard to onus, no hard and fast rule of universal application in all situations, can be deduced from the decided cases.
Precedent	In some decisions, such as, <CITATION_1148508> and <CITATION_668225> , it was laid down by this <ORG> that if the writ petitioner succeeds in showing that the impugned law ex facie abridges or transgresses the rights coming under any of the Sub-clauses of Clause (1) of Article 19 , the onus shifts on the respondent-<ORG> to show that the legislation comes within the permissible limits imposed by any of the Clauses (2) to (6) as may be applicable to the case, and, also to place material before the court in support of that conte ntion.
Precedent	If the <ORG> does nothing in that respect, it is not for the petitioner to prove negatively that it is not covered by any of the permissive clauses.
Precedent	65.
Precedent	A contrary trend, however, is discernible in the recent decisions of this <ORG>, which start with the initial presumption in favour of the constitutionality of the statute and throw the burden of rebutting that presumption oh the party who challenges its constitutionality on the ground of Article 19.
Precedent	66.
Precedent	<CITATION_843614> this <ORG>, speaking through <ORG>, J., reiterated the ratio of <NAME> case.
Precedent	1959 SCR 279, 297- Propositions (b) and (c) that:  there is always a presumption in favour of the constitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that there has been a clear transgression of the constitutional principles; and that it must be presumed that the legislature understands and correctly appreciates the need of its own people, that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by expe rience and that its discriminations are based on adequate grounds.
Precedent	It was emphasised that "Judges act not by hunch but on hard facts properly brought on record and sufficiently strong to rebuff the initial presumption of constitutionality of legislation.
Precedent	Nor is the <ORG> a third Chamber of the <ORG> to weigh whether it should draft the clause differently."
Precedent	Referring, inter alia, to the decision of this <ORG> in <NAME> (ibid), and <NAME>'s 'Constitutional Law of India'.
Precedent	Vol.
Precedent	I, page 54. it was recalled; "Some courts have gone to the extent of holding that there is a presumption in favour of constitutionality, and a law will not be declared unconstitutional unless the case is so clear as to be free from doubt: and to doubt the constitutionality of a law is to resolve it in favour of its validity".
Precedent	Similar view was taken by a Bench of seven learned.
Precedent	Judges of this <ORG> in <CITATION_1959928> .
Precedent	67.
Precedent	Behind the view that there is a presumption of constitutionality of a statute and the onus to re but the same lies on those who challenge the legislation, is the rationale of judicial restraint, a recognition of the limits of judicial review, a respect for the boundaries of legislative and judicial functions, and the judicial responsibility to guard the trespass from one side or the other.
Precedent	The primary function of the courts is to interpret and apply the laws according to the will of those who made them and not to transgress into the legislative domain of policy-making.
Precedent	"The job of a Judge is judging and not law-making" In Lord <NAME>'s words: "Judges are the keepers of the law and the keepers of these boundaries cannot, also, be among outriders.
Precedent	68.
Precedent	A similar warning was echoed by <ORG> of the United States in <NAME> v. United States in these terms:  Courts are not representative bodies.
Precedent	They are not designed to be a good reflex of a democratic society.
Precedent	Their judgment is best informed, and therefore most dependable, within narrow limits.
Precedent	Their essential quality is detachment, founded on inde pendence.
Precedent	History teaches that the independents of the judiciary is jeopardized when courts become embroiled in the passions of the day and assume primary responsibility in choosing between competing political, economic and social pressures.
Precedent	69.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. Georgia one of the principal questions for consideration was, whether capital punishment provided in a statute for certain crimes was a "cruel and unusual" punishment.
Precedent	In that context, the nature of the burden which rests on those who attack the constitutionality of the statute was explained by <NAME>.
Precedent	J., thus:  We may not require the legislature to select the least severe penalty possible so long as the penalty selected is not cruelly inhumane or disproportionate to the crime involved.
Precedent	And a heavy burden rests on those who would attack the Judgment of the representatives of the people.
Precedent	This is true in part because the constitutional test is intertwined with an assessment of contemporary standards and the legislative Judgment weighs heavily in ascertain ing such standards.
Precedent	In a democratic society legislatures, not courts, are constituted to respond to the will and consequently the moral values of the people.
Precedent	70.
Precedent	Even where the burden is on the <ORG> to show that the restriction imposed by the impugned statute is reasonable and in public interest, the extent and the manner of discharge of the burden necessarily depends on the subject-matter of the legislation, the nature of the inquiry, and the scope and limits of Judicial review.
Precedent	(See the observations of <NAME>, J. in <CITATION_554839> 1952 SCR 597 at p. 607 reiterated in <NAME>).
Precedent	71.
Precedent	In the instant case, the <ORG> has discharged its burden primarily by producing for the perusal of the <ORG>, the 35th Report of the Law Commission.
Precedent	1967. and the judgments of this <ORG> in <NAME> Singh and in several subsequent cases, in which it has been recognised that death penalty serves as a deterrent.
Precedent	It is, therefore, for the petitioners to prove and establish that the death sentence for murder is so outmoded, unu sual or excessive as to be devoid of any rational nexus with the purpose and object of the legislation.
Precedent	72.
Precedent	<ORG>, after making an intensive and extensive study of the subject of death penalty in India, published and submitted its 36th Report in 1967 to the Government.
Precedent	After examining, a wealth of evidential material and considering the arguments for and against its retention, that high-powered Body summed up its conclusions at page 354 of its Report, as follows:  The issue of abolition or retention has to be decided on a balancing of the various arguments for and against retention.
Precedent	No single argument for abolition or retention can decide the issue.
Precedent	In arriving at any conclusion on the subject, the need for protecting society in general and individual human beings must be borne in mind.
Precedent	It is difficult to rule out the validity of the strength behind many of the arguments for abolition nor does the <ORG> treat lightly the argument based on the irrevocability of the sentence of deat h, the need for a modern approach, the severity of capital punishment and the strong feeling shown by certain sections of public opinion in stressing deeper questions of human values.
Precedent	Having regard, however, to the conditions in India, to the variety of the social up-bringing of its inhabitants, to the disparity in the level of morality and education in the country, to the vastness of its area, to diversity of its population and to the paramount need for maintaining law and order in the country at the present Juncture, India cannot risk the experiment of abolition of capital punishment.
Precedent	73.
Precedent	This Report was, also, considered by <ORG> of this Court in Jagmohan.
Precedent	It was the main piece of evidence on the basis of which the challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 302 of the Penal Code, op the ground of its being violative of Article 19 , was repelled.
Precedent	<ORG> must be presumed to have considered these views of <ORG> and the judgment of this Court in Jagmohan, and must a <ORG> have been aware of the principles crystallised by judicial precedents in the matter of sentencing when it took up revision of the CrPC in 1972-73. and inserted in it, Section 354(3) which indicates that death penalty can be awarded in exceptional cases for murder and for some other offences under the Penal Code for special reasons to be recorded.
Precedent	74.
Precedent	Death penalty has been the sue-Jeet of an age-old debate between Aboiltionists and Retentionists, although recently the controversy has come in sharp focus.
Precedent	Both the groups are deeply anchored in their antagonistic views.
Precedent	Both firmly and sincerely believe in the righteousness of their respective stands, with overtones of sentiment and emotion.
Precedent	Both the camps can claim among them eminent thinkers, penologists, sociologists, Jurists, Judges, legislators, administrators and law enforcement officials.
Precedent	75.
Precedent	The chief arguments of the Abolitionists, which have been substantially adopted by the learned Counsel for the petitioners, are as under:  (a) The death penal ty is irreversible.
Precedent	Decided upon according to fallible processes of law by fallible human beings, it can be- and actually has been- inflicted upon people innocent of any crime.
Precedent	(b) There is no convincing evidence to show that death penalty serves any penological purpose:  (i) Its deterrent effect remains unproven.
Precedent	It has not been shown that incidence of murder has increased in countries where death penalty has been abolished, after its abolition.
Precedent	(ii) Retribution in the sense of vengeance, is no longer an acceptable end of punishment.
Precedent	(iii) On the contrary, reformation of the criminal and his rehabilitation is the primary purpose of punishment.
Precedent	Imposition of death penalty nullifies that purpose.
Precedent	(c) Execution by whatever means and for whatever offence is a cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment.
Precedent	76.
Precedent	It is proposed to deal with these arguments, as far as possible, in their serial order.
Precedent	Regarding (a): It is true that death penalty is irrevocable and a few instances, can be cited, including some from Eng land of persons who after their conviction and execution for murder, were discovered to be innocent.
Precedent	But this, according to the Retentionists is not a reason for abolition of the death penalty, but an argument for reform of the judicial system and the sentencing procedure.
Precedent	Theoretically, such errors of judgment cannot be absolutely eliminated from any system of justice, devised and worked by human beings, but their incidence can be infinitesimally reduced by providing adequate safeguards and checks.
Precedent	We will presently see, while dealing with the procedural aspect of the problem, that in India, ample safeguards have been provided by law and the Constitution which almost eliminate, the chances of an innocent person being convicted and executed for a capital offence.
Precedent	Regarding (b): Whether death penalty serves any penological purpose.
Precedent	77.
Precedent	Firstly, in most of the countries in the world, including India, a very large segment of the population, including notable penologists, judges, jurists, legislators and other  enlightened people still believe that death penalty for murder and certain other capital offences does serve as a deterrent, and a greater deterrent than life imprisonment.
Precedent	We will set out very briefly, by way of sample, opinions of some of these distinguished persons.
Precedent	78.
Precedent	In the first place, we will notice a few decisions of <ORG> wherein the deterrent value of death penalty has been judicially recognised.
Precedent	79.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. State of Punjab S.L.P.
Precedent	(Crl.)
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	698 & 678 of 1973, decided on October 9, 1973, the facts were that <NAME>, who was a fanatic devotee of the <NAME>, used to hold Satsangs at which bhajjans were sung in praise of the Goddess.
Precedent	<NAME> ceremonially beheaded his four year old boy at the crescendo of the morning bhajan.
Precedent	He was tried, convicted and sentenced to death for the murder.
Precedent	His death sentence was confirmed by <ORG>.
Precedent	He filed a petition for grant of special leave to appeal to this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution.
Fact	It was contended on behalf of <NAME> tha t the very monstrosity of the crime provided proof of his insanity sufficient to exculpate the offender under Section 84 , Indian Penal Code , or material for mitigation of the sentence of death.
Fact	<NAME>, J., speaking for the <ORG>, to which one of us (Sarkaria, J.)
RatioOfTheDecision	was a party, refused to grant special leave and summarily dismissed the petition with these observations:  The poignantly pathological grip of macabre superstitions on some crude Indian minds in the shape of desire to do human and animal sacrifice, in defiance of the scientific ethos of our cultural heritage and the scientific impact of our technological century, shows up in crimes of primitive horror such as the one we are dealing with now, where a bloodcurdling butchery of one's own beloved son was perpetrated, aided by other 'nious' criminals, to propitiate some blood-thirsty deity.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secular India, speaking through the <ORG>, must administer shock therapy to such anti-social 'piety', when the manifestation is in terms of inhuman and cr iminal violence.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the disease is social, deterrence through court sentence must, perforce, operate through the individual culprit coming up before court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Social justice has many facets and Judges have a sensitive, secular and civilsing role in suppressing grievous injustice to humanist values by inflicting condign punishment on dangerous deviants.
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis added)  80.
Precedent	In Jagmohan, also, this Court took due note of the fact that for certain types of murders, death penalty alone is considered an adequate deterrent:  A large number of murders is undoubtedly of the common type.
Precedent	But some at least are diabolical in conception and cruel in execution.
Precedent	In some others where the victim is a person of high standing in the country society is liable to be rocked to its very foundation.
Precedent	Such murders cannot simply be wished away by finding alibis in the social maladjustment of the murderer.
Precedent	Prevalence of such crimes speaks, in the opinion of many, for the inevitability of death penalty not only by way of deterrence but  as a token of emphatic disapproval of the society."
Precedent	Examining whether life imprisonment was an adequate substitute for death penalty, the <ORG> observed:  In the context of our criminal law which punishes murder, one cannot ignore the fact that life imprisonment works out in most cases to a dozen years of punishment, and it may be seriously questioned whether that sole alternative will be an adequate substitute for the death penalty.
Precedent	81.
Precedent	<CITATION_1496005> , <NAME>, speaking for the <ORG> to which one of us (Sarkaria, J.)
Precedent	was a party, observed that "deterrence through threat of death may still be a promising strategy in some frightful areas of murderous crime."
Precedent	It was further observed that "horrendous features of the crime and the hapless and helpless state of the victim steel the heart of law for the sterner sentence.
Precedent	82.
Precedent	<CITATION_1896096> ) (1977) 3 SCR 172 the same learned Judge, speaking for the <ORG>, reiterated the deterrent effect of death penalty by referring to his earlier judgment  in <NAME> case, as follows:  In <NAME> this <ORG>, while noticing the social and personal circumstances possessing an extenuating impact, has equally clearly highlighted that in India under present conditions deterrence through death penalty may not be a time-barred punishment in some frightful areas of barbarous murder.
Precedent	83.
Precedent	Again, in <CITATION_1518037> , the same learned Judge, speaking for a Bench of three learned Judges of this <ORG> reiterated that deterrence was one of the vital considerations of punishment.
Precedent	84.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> (1958) 356 US 86, <NAME>, J. of the Supreme <ORG> of the United States, concurring with the majority, emphasised the deterrent end of punishment, in these words:  Rehabilitation is but one of the several purposes of the penal law.
Precedent	Among other purposes are deterrents of the wrongful act by the threat of punishment and insulation of society from dangerous individuals by imprisonment or execution.
Precedent	85.
Precedent	In <ORG>, <NAME>, J. took the view that death p enalty serves a deterrent as well as retributive purpose.
Precedent	In his view, certain criminal conduct is so atrocious that society's interest in deterrence and retribution wholly outweighs any considerations of reform or rehabilitation of the perpetrator, and that, despite the inconclusive empirical evidence, only penalty of death will provide maximum deterrence,  86.
Precedent	Speaking for the majority, in <NAME> v. Georgia, <NAME>, J. reiterated his views with regard to the deterrent and retributive effect of death penalty.
Precedent	87.
Precedent	Now, we may notice by way of specimen, the views of some jurists and scholars of note.
Precedent	Sir <NAME>, the great jurist, who was concerned with the drafting of the Indian Penal Code , also, was a strong exponent of the view that capital punishment has the greatest value as a deterrent for murder and other capital offence.
Precedent	To quote his words.
Precedent	No other punishment deters men so effectually from committing crimes as the punishment of death.
Precedent	This is one of those propositions which it is dif ficult to prove, simply because they are in themselves more obvious than any proof can make them.
Precedent	It is possible to display ingenuity in arguing against it, but that is all.
Precedent	The whole experience of mankind is in the other direction.
Precedent	The threat of instant death is the one to which resort has always been made when there was an absolute necessity for producing some result.... No one goes to certain inevitable death except by compulsion.
Precedent	Put the matter the other way.
Precedent	Was there ever yet a criminal who, when sentenced to death and brought out to die.
Precedent	would refuse the offer of commutation of his sentence for the severest secondary punishment.
Precedent	Surely not.
Precedent	Why is this ?
Precedent	It can only be because 'All that a man has will he give for his life'.
Precedent	In any secondary punishment, however terrible, there is hope; but death is death: its terrors cannot be described more forcibly.
Precedent	88.
Precedent	Even <NAME>, who can be called the <NAME> of the modern Abolitionist movement, concedes in his treatise, "Dei Delitti a  della Pana" (1764) that capital punishment would be justified in two instances Firstly, if an execution would prevent a revolution against popularly established Government; and, secondly, if an execution was the only way to deter others from committing a crime.
Precedent	The adoption of double standards for capital punishment in the realm of conscience is considered by some scholars as the biggest infirmity in the Abolitionists' case.
Precedent	89.
Precedent	<NAME> is one of the penologists who has made a scientific study of the subject of capital punishment and compiled the views of various scholars of the 19th and 20th centuries.
Precedent	In his book "Capital Punishment", he has made an attempt to assemble the arguments for and against the death penalty.
Precedent	He has also given extracts from the Debetes in <ORG> <ORG> in 1956 and, also, in March and April 1966.
Precedent	In the Canadian <ORG>.
Precedent	In the last part of his book, the learned Editor summarises his ideas about capital punishment.
Precedent	In his opinion.
Precedent	Retribution seems t o be outdated and unworkable.
Precedent	It is neither efficient nor equitably administered.
Precedent	"Justice is a relative concept that changes with the times".
Precedent	A retributive philosophy alone is not now socially acceptable.
Precedent	"In the last ahalysis, the only utilitarian argument that has to be given attention is the one that defends capital punishment as being a uniquely powerful means of protecting the community."
Precedent	He ends his book with the observation: "I have attempted to show that, as now used, capital punishment performs one of the utilitarian functions claimed by its supporters, nor can it ever be made to serve such functions.
Precedent	It is an archaic custom of primitive origin that has disappeared in most civilized countries and is withering away in the rest.
Precedent	90.
Precedent	Recently, in "Criminology Review Year-Book" (1979) Vol.
RatioOfTheDecision	I, <NAME> & <NAME>, after surveying the past literature on the relation between capital, punishment and capital crimes have pointed out the following shortcomings in the thesis of <NAME>:  The pr incipal shortcoming of the work by <NAME> and others using his methodology is that the approach taken and the methods applied do not permit a systematic examination of the main implications emanating from the general theory, of deterrence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The shortcoming is basic, because the implications following from the general deterrence hypothesis are what <NAME> was challenging.
RatioOfTheDecision	Yet his work neither develops nor tests the full range of implications following from the theory he attempts to reject; nor does he develop or test a competing theory.
Fact	In addition, to my knowledge, <NAME> never reported in any of his studies the results of any systematic (parametric or non-parametric) statistical tests that could Justify his strong and unqualified inferences.
Fact	Another fundamental shortcoming of <NAME>'s studies is their failure to account systematically for other factors that are expected by the deterrence hypothesis to affect the frequency of murder in the population, apart from the relevant risk of execution.
Fact	These are varia bles such as the probability of apprehension, the conditional probability of conviction given apprehension, the severity of alternative punishments for murder, the distribution of income, the probability of unemployment, and other indicators of differential gains from criminal activities occurring jointly with murder.
Fact	Since, as I, shall argue later, some of these variables are expected to be highly correlated with the conditional probability of execution given conviction of murder, their exclusion from the statistical analysis can seriously bias estimates of the partial deterrent effect of capital punishment.
Fact	Aware of the problem.
Fact	<NAME> attempted to compare states that are as alike as possible in all other respects.
Fact	However, his "matching procedure", based on the assumption that neighbouring states can satisfy such pre-requisites without any.
Fact	explicit standardization, is simply insufficient for any valid inferences.
Fact	Pairs of states, such as New York, and Rhode Island, Massachusetts and Maine, or Illinois and  Wisconsin all included in his comparisons, differ in their economic and demographic characteristics, in their law enforcement activities, and in the opportunities they provide for the commission of other crimes.
Fact	Moreover, the direction of the causal relationship between the murder rate and the overall risk of punishment - be it the death penalty or any other sanction - is not self-evident because, for example, states with high murder rates are expected to and, in fact do devote more resources to apprehend, convict and execute offenders than do states with lower rates.
Fact	Specifically, variations in the legal or practical status of the cause for, changes in the murder rate, and thus may give rise to an apparent positive association between these two variables.
Precedent	The same general point applied in connection with the identification of the effect of any other variable which is a product of law enforcement activity of private protection against crime.
Precedent	For these reasons, the true deterrent effect of a section such as t he death penalty cannot be readily inferred from simple comparisons of the sort performed by <NAME>.
Precedent	90.
Precedent	A The learned authors then arrive at this conclusion:  If investigations indicate that probability and length of imprisonment do impart significant deterrent effects, then failure of the research to demonstrate specifically the deterrent efficacy of capital punishment may be taken more as evidence for short comings in the research design and methodology or in the measures of the theoretically relevant variables used than as a reflection on the validity of the deterrence theory itself.
Precedent	91.
Precedent	These scholars then stress another purpose of capital punishment, namely, incapacitation of the offender, which, in fact, is another aspect of its deterrent effect.
Precedent	To quote their words:  There is an additional point worth stressing.
Precedent	Even if punishment by execution or imprisonment does not have any deterrent effect, surely it must exert some incapacitative effect on punished offenders by reducing or eliminating the poss ibility of recidivism on their part.
Precedent	92.
Precedent	Another well-known penologist, <NAME> has also made a study of the deterrent effect of capital punishment.
Precedent	The result of his study was published in <ORG> in June, 1975.
Precedent	He includes a specific test for the presence of a deterrent effect of capital punishment to the results of earlier studies.
Precedent	<NAME> and <NAME> in.
Precedent	their Review Year-Book (ibid) have mentioned that <NAME> has in his study2 claimed to identify a significant reduction in the murder rate due to the use of capital punishment.
Precedent	A version of his study is said to have been filed with <ORG>, in the case of <NAME> v. North Carolina.
Precedent	93.
Precedent	In 1975.
Precedent	<NAME>, a sociologist, published the results of a study he had made in New York regarding the rehabilitation of prisoners.
Precedent	Among the conclusions he drew: "The prison which makes every effort at rehabilitation succeeds no better than the prison which leaves its inmates to rot....
Precedent	The certainty of punish ment, rather than the severity, is the most effective crime deterrent.
Precedent	We should make plain that prisons exist to punish people for crimes committed.
Precedent	(quoted in <ORG>, pp.
Precedent	593-594)  94.
Argument	Many judges - especially in Britain and the United States, where rising crime rates are the source of much public concern - have expressed grave doubts about the wisdom of the view that reform ought to take priority in dealing with offenders.
Argument	"They have argued that the courts must reflect a public abhorrence of crime and that justice demands that some attempt be made to impose punishment fitting to the crime.
Precedent	(<ORG>, ibid.)
Precedent	95.
Precedent	Professor <NAME>, Judge of <ORG> of Geneva, and a distinguished jurist, maintains in his learned analysis, (see the Postscript in reply to A World View of Capital Punishment by James Avery Joyce), of the views of <NAME> and <NAME>, that neither of these two authors has faced up to the really basic objection to the aboliti onist's case.
Precedent	According to <NAME>, there are two groups of people, which are not covered by the abolitionist's case, and <NAME> and <NAME> have therefore left their cause open to attack at its weakest point "The true problem" as <NAME> sees it.
Precedent	"is the protection of the organized, civilized community", the legitimate defence of society against criminal attacks made upon it by those antisocial elements which can be stopped only by being eliminated, in the "last resort".
Precedent	For such, the death penalty should be preserved, and only for such,  96.
Precedent	Professor <NAME>'s second challenge is, which the abolitionist must accept, the existing division between civil and military protection.
Precedent	According to him, in doing so, the abolitionist cannot avoid applying double standard and two mutually destructive criteria to their approach to the death penalty.
Precedent	"For if the death penalty is accepted as protective in principle to society, then it should be so in all cases and in all circumstances in troubled times as well as in peacefu l times, in respect of the traitor, the spy, the deserter, or the hostage, as well as of the brigand, the "gangster", or the professional killer.
Precedent	We must be logical and just at the same time.
Precedent	In the realm of conscience and of 'principles', there cannot be two weights and measures.
Precedent	There cannot be a morality for difficult times and another morality for easy times: one standard for military justice and another for civil justice.
Precedent	What then should be done with those individuals who have always been considered proper subjects for elimination?
Precedent	If the capital sentence is objectionable and illegal....
Precedent	If the death penalty must be absolutely repudiated because it 'degrades man' (quoting <NAME>) then we accept the position.
Precedent	But, in that case, no right to kill exists any longer...the greatest war criminals.
Precedent	those responsible - conscious of what they have done and intended to do - for the worst crimes of genocide, who gassed, incinerated in ovens or buried in quicklime a million innocent victims, or allowed them to perish  in mines and marsher.... Society has not the right then to kill even these "Monsters".
Precedent	(Quoted in A World View of Capital Punishment, by <NAME>).
Precedent	97.
Precedent	<NAME>, a parliamentarian, articulated his views with regard to the deterrent value of capital punishment in <ORG> <ORG> in the March-April debate 1966, as follows:  Whether it (capital punishment) is a greater or lesser deterrent than life imprisonment.
Precedent	This is an argument that cannot be proven on either side but 1 would not like to have to try to convince any one that capital punishment is not a deterrent.
Precedent	Statistically this cannot be proven because the deterrent effect on both capital punishment and life imprisonment is obscured by the fact that most criminals plan a crime on the basis that they are going to avoid any penalty....
Precedent	I say, the deterrent value is with respect to people who did not commit crimes, who were deterred from becoming murderers by the fact that capital punishment or some other heavy penalty would be  meted out to them if caught.
Precedent	(Quoted in <NAME>'s Capital Punishment).
Precedent	98.
Precedent	<ORG> in its 35th Report, after carefully sifting all the materials collected by them, recorded their views regarding the deterrent effect of capital punishment as follows: "In our view capital punishment does act as a deterrent.
Precedent	We have already discussed in detail several aspects of this topic.
Precedent	We state below, very briefly, the main points that have weighed with us in arriving at this conclusion:  (a) Basically, every human being dreads death.
Precedent	(b) Death, as a penalty, stands on a totally different level from imprisonment for life or any other punishment.
Precedent	The difference is one of quality, and not merely of degree.
Precedent	(c) Those who are specifically qualified to express an opinion on the subject, including particularly the majority of the replies received from State Governments, Judges, Members of Parliament and Legislatures and Members of the <ORG> and police officers - are definitely of the view that the deterrent o bject of capital punishment is achieved in a fair measure in India.
Precedent	(d) As to conduct of prisoners released from jail (after undergoing imprisonment for life), it would be difficult to come to a conclusion, without studies extending over a long period of years.
Precedent	(e) Whether any other punishment can possess all the advantages of Capital punishment is a matter of doubt.
Precedent	(f) Statistics of other countries are in conclusive on the subject.
Precedent	If they are not regarded as proving the deterrent effect, neither can they be regarded as conclusively disproving it.
Precedent	Views of <ORG>:  99.
Precedent	<ORG>, after making an exhaustive study of the issue of capital punishment and its deterrent value, in their Report (1949-53), concluded.
Precedent	The general conclusion which we reach, after careful review of all the evidence we have been able to obtain as to the deterrent effect of capital punishment, may be stated as follows.
Precedent	Prima facie the penalty of death is likely to have a stronger effect as a  deterrent to normal human beings than any other form of punishment, and there is some evidence (though no convincing statistical evidence) that this is in fact so.
Precedent	But this effect does not operate universally or uniformly, and there are many offenders on whom it is limited and may often be negligible.
Precedent	100.
Precedent	We may add that whether or not death penalty in actual practice acts as a deterrent, cannot be statistically proved either way, because statistics as to how many potential murderers were deterred from committing murders, but for the existence of capital punishment for murder, are difficult, if not altogether impossible, to collect.
Precedent	Such statistics of deterred potential murderers are difficult to unravel as they remain hidden in the innermost recesses of their mind.
Precedent	Retribution in the sense of reprobation - whether a totally rejected concept of punishment:  101.
Precedent	Even retribution in the sense of society's reprobation for the worst of crimes, i. e., murder, is not an altogether outmoded concept.
Precedent	This view is  held by many distinguished sociologists, jurists and judges.
Precedent	102.
Precedent	Lord Justice <NAME>, Master of the Rolls of the Court of Appeal in England, appearing before <ORG>, stated his views on this point as under:  Punishment is the way in which society expresses its denunciation of wrong-doing; and in order to maintain respect for law, it is essential that the punishment inflicted for grave crimes should adequately reflect the revulsion felt by the great majority of citizens for them.
Precedent	It is a mistake to consider the objects of punishment as being deterrent or reformative or preventive and nothing else....
RatioOfTheDecision	The truth is that some crimes are so outrageous that society insists on adequate punishment, because the wrongdoer deserves it.
RatioOfTheDecision	irrespective of whether it is a deterrent or not.
Precedent	That retribution is still socially acceptable function of punishment, was also the view expressed by <NAME>, J., in <NAME>-man v. Georgia at page 389, as follows:  ...I would say only that I ca nnot agree that retribution is a constitutionally impermissible ingredient in the imposition of punishment.
Precedent	The instinct for retribution is part of the nature of man.
Precedent	and channelling that instinct, in the administration of criminal justice serves an important purpose in promoting the stability of a society governed by law.
Precedent	When people begin to believe that organized society is unwilling or unable to impose upon criminal offenders the punishment they 'deserve', then there are sown the seeds of anarchy - of self-help, vigilante justice, and lynch law.
Precedent	103.
Precedent	<NAME>, the eminent jurist and judge, in his book, "The Judge" emphasises the retributive aspect of the purpose of punishment and criminal justice, thus:  I affirm that justice means retribution and nothing else.
Precedent	Vindictiveness is the emotional out flow of retribution and justice has no concern with that.
Precedent	But it is concerned with the measurement of deserts.
Precedent	The point was put lucidly and simply by <NAME> in a letter to <ORG>, from wh ich with his permission I quote; Firstly, far from pretending that retribution should have no place in our penal system, Mr. <NAME> should recognize that it is logically impossible to remove it.
Precedent	If it were removed, all punishments should be rendered unjust.
Precedent	What could be more immoral than to inflict imprisonment on a criminal for the sake of deterring others, if he does not deserve ft?
Precedent	Or would it be justified to subject him to a compulsory attempt to reform which includes a denial of liberty unless, again he deserves it?
Precedent	104.
Precedent	Retribution and deterrence are not two divergent ends of capital punishment They are convergent goals which ultimately merge into one.
Precedent	How these ends of punishment coalesce into one was described by <ORG>, that:  The retributive object of capital punishment has been the subject-matter of sharp attack at the hands of the abolitionists.
Precedent	We appreciate that many persons would regard the instinct of revenge as barbarous.
Precedent	How far it should form part of the penal philosop hy in modem times win always remain a matter of controversy.
Precedent	No useful purpose will be served by a discussion as to whether the instinct of retribution is or is not commendable.
Precedent	The fact remains, however, that whenever mere is a serious crime, the society feels a sense of disapprobation.
Precedent	If there is any element of retribution in the law, as administered now, it is not the instinct of the man of jungle but rather a refined evolution of that instinct the feeling prevails in the public is a fact of which notice is to be taken.
Precedent	The law does not encourage it, or exploit it for any undesirable ends.
Precedent	Rather, by reserving the death penalty for murder, and thus visiting this gravest crime with the gravest punishment, the law helps the element of retribution merge into the element of deterrence.
Precedent	(<NAME> 265 (18), 35th Report)  105.
Precedent	Earlier in 1949-1953, <ORG> in <NAME>.
Precedent	59 of its Report spoke in a somewhat similar strain:  We think it is reasonable to suppose that the deterrent force of capital punis hment operates not only by affecting the conscious thoughts of individuals tempted to commit murder, but also by building up in the community, over a long period of time, a deep feeling of peculiar abhorrence for the crime of murder.
Precedent	The fact that men are hung for murder is one great reason why murder is considered so dreadful a crime.
Precedent	This widely diffused effect on the moral consciousness of society is impossible to assess, but it must be at least as important as any direct part which the death penalty may play as a deterrent in the calculations of potential murderers.
Precedent	106.
Precedent	According to Dr. <NAME>, a New York psychologist and author, and a leading proponent of death penalty, "a very strong symbolic value" attaches to executions.
Precedent	"The motives for the death penalty may indeed include vengeance.
Precedent	Legal vengeance solidifies social solidarity against law-breakers and probably is the only alternative to the disruptive private revenge of those who feel harmed".
Precedent	(See <ORG> (USA) June 4, 1979.)
Precedent	107.
Precedent	The views of <NAME>, who was the Prime Minister of England during the First World War, have been referred to in the book "Capital Punishment" (1967) by <NAME> at page 65, as below:  The first function of capital punishment is to give emphatic expression to society's peculiar abhorrence of murder....
Precedent	It to important that murder should be regarded with peculiar horror....
Precedent	I believe that capital punishment does, in the present state of society, both express and sustain the sense of moral revulsion for murder.
Precedent	108.
Precedent	This view is not without respectable support in die jurisprudential literature of today, despite an opinion to the contrary.
Precedent	(See also <ORG> 1949-53).
Precedent	In relying, inter alia, upon the evidence before it,-including that of Lord <NAME>, <ORG> recognised a strong and wide-spread demand for retribution.
Precedent	It is a common phenomenon in all the civilised countries that some murders are so shocking an offence that there is a general outcry from die public  for infliction of the ultimate penalty on the criminal.
Precedent	109.
Precedent	In regard to the retributive aspect of capital punishment, we may cite one recent illustration showing how demand for retribution, in the sense of society's instinctive disapproval of the outrageous conduct of the murderer is indelibly ingrained in contemporary public opinion even in advanced countries.
Precedent	110.
Precedent	In November, 1978, <NAME> (Mayor) and <NAME> (Supervising Officer) of San Francisco were cruelly assassinated by <NAME>, a police-man.
Precedent	Six months later, on May 22, 1979, a jury of seven men and five women rejected the charge of first-degree murder, and in consequence, did not award capital punishment to <NAME> for this heinous double murder.
Precedent	Public opinion reacted sharply.
Precedent	Public protest against this decision spontaneously manifested itself in a burst of flame and fury.
Fact	Thousands of outraged demonstrators rampaged through the Civic center, smashing windows, burning police cars, chanting: "We want justice".
Fact	Writing in <ORG> ice', a local paper from San Franscisco, in its issue of June 4, 1979, <NAME>, fired at the jury a volley of questions, to which the agitated public would demand answers:  What comment did the jury make on the value of life ?
Fact	Was the tragedy of the execution-style murders the central issue, or was the jury only concerned with technicalities, absurdities and loopholes of the law?
Fact	Was justice considered - not revenge - but justice?
Fact	High irony, <NAME> strong belief in capital punishment has found thousands of new converts.
Fact	From now on, a lot of people will die because <NAME> lives.
Fact	Are we so insensitive, callous and inhuman that we accept or excuse violence and brutality?
Precedent	Consider <NAME>'s defence lawyer, <NAME>'s reference to that tragic Monday in November: "It was a tragedy.
Precedent	Now it's behind us.
Precedent	For those who loved and still miss <NAME> and <NAME>, for those who were cast into darkness and cried for justice, for those who still seek answers, the lawyer's words are a chilli ng reminder that we must not forget - that we must not 'put it behind us'.
Precedent	The former cop, a law and order and capita] punishment advocate driven by his passion, by his lack of reason, to destroy those who he disagreed with, and by doing so demonstrated the greatest human failure - the inability to co-exist.
Precedent	<NAME> symbolizes the violence and brutality that is undermining civilization.
Precedent	111.
Precedent	<NAME>'s case and the spontaneous reaction of the public opinion that followed, show that opposition to capital punishment has (to use the words of Raspberry)*(Raspberry, Death Sentence, <ORG>, March 12, 1976, p. 27, cols.
Precedent	5-6), 'much more appeal when the discussion is merely academic than when the community is confronted with a crime, or a series of crimes, so gross, so heinous, to cold-blooded that anything short of death seems an inadequate response".
Precedent	112.
Precedent	The Editor of 'Capital Punishment', <NAME> has noted at page 83 of his compilation, the following views of an outstanding Justice of  <ORG>:  The irrevocable character of the death penalty is a reason why all possible measures should be taken against injustice - not fop its abolition.
Precedent	Now a days, with the advent of armed criminals and the substantial increase in armed robberies, criminals of long standing if arrested, must expect long sentences.
Precedent	However, if they run no risk of hanging, when found guilty of murder, they will kill policemen and witnesses with the prospect of a future no more unhappy, as one of them put it, than being fed.
Precedent	lodged, and clothed for the rest of their lives.
Precedent	In addition, once in prison, such people who are capable of anything could kill their guards and their fellow inmates with relative impunity.
Precedent	113.
Precedent	<NAME>, the Canadian Parliamentarian justifies, from another angle, the right of the <ORG> to award capital punishment for murder:  If the <ORG> has the right and the duty to defend the community against outside aggression, such as in time of war, and within the country, for instance, in c ase of treason, crimes against the <ORG>, etc., and that to the extent of taking the life of the aggressors and guilty parties, if the citizen wants to protect his own life by killing whoever attacks him without any reason, the <ORG> can do the same when a criminal attacks and endangers the life of the community by deciding to eliminate summarily another human being.... Capital punishment must be retained to prove the sanctity of that most precious thing which is the gift of life; it embodies the revulsion and horror that we feel for the greatest of crimes.... For most people, life is priceless and they will do anything and suffer the worst privations to preserve it, even when life itself does not bold many consolations or bright prospects for the future.... As a deterrent, the death penalty is playing its part for which there is no substitute....
Precedent	I suggest that statistics do not prove much, either on one side or the other....
Precedent	There are too many variations, too many changes as regards circumstances, condition s, between one period and the other, to enable us to make worthy comparisons.
Precedent	(See page 84 of <NAME>'s Capital Punishment.)
Precedent	114.
Precedent	Some penologists justify capital penalty and life imprisonment on the 'isolation' or 'elimination' theory of crime and punishment.
Precedent	<NAME> in his "Law & The Administration of Justice" (Second Edition, at page 10), says:  The isolation theory of crime and punishment is that the criminal law is a device for identifying persons dangerous to society who are then punished by being isolated from society as a whole, so that they cannot commit other anti-social acts.
Precedent	The isolation theory is used to justify the.
Precedent	death penalty and long-term imprisonment.
Precedent	Obviously, this theory is effective in preventing criminal acts by those executed or permanently incarcerated.
Precedent	115.
Precedent	While the Abolitionists look upon death penalty as something which is per se immoral and inhuman, the Retentionists apprehend that if we surrender even the risk of the last remaining horrifying deterrent by which to fright en the toughs of the underworld, we may easily tip the scales in favour of the anti-social hoodlums.
Precedent	They fear that abolition of capital punishment, will result in increase of murders motivated by greed, and in affable "crime passionelle".
Precedent	116.
Precedent	"It is feared", wrote <NAME> Tribune, December 8, 1963), "the most devastating effects of the abolition will, however, show themselves in the realm of political murder.
RatioOfTheDecision	An adherent of political extremism is usually convinced that the victory of his cause is just round the corner.
RatioOfTheDecision	So, for him long term imprisonment holds no fear.
RatioOfTheDecision	He is confident that (he coming ascendancy of his friends will soon liberate him."
RatioOfTheDecision	To prove this proposition, <NAME> cites the instance of <NAME> Government who in September, 1932, reprieved the death sentence passed on two of <NAME>'s storm-troopers for brutal killing of one of their political opponents.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Retentionists believe that the dismantling of the gallows will almost everywhere enhance the hit and run attacks  on political opponents.
Precedent	On this premise, they argue that capital punishment is the most formidable safeguard against terrorism.
Precedent	117.
Precedent	The argument cannot be rejected out of hand.
Precedent	A number of instances can be cited where abolitionist States feeling the Inadequacy of their penological Armour to combat politically motivated gangsterism, have retrieved and used their capital weapon which they had once thrown away.
Precedent	Despite their traditional abhorrence of death penalty, the Norwegians executed Major <NAME> after World War 11.
Precedent	The Belgians, too, executed no less than 242 'collaborators' and traitors after the liberation, although in their country, the death penalty was otiose since 1880.
Precedent	118.
Precedent	In England, death penalty was retained for high treason in the Silverman Bill of 1956.
Precedent	Even at present, for that offence, death penalty is a valid sanction in England.
Precedent	In the aftermath of assassination of Prime Minister <NAME> in 1959, Ceylon hurriedly reintroduced capital punishment for murder.
Precedent	Owing to similar  considerations, Israel sanctioned death penalty for crimes committed against the Jewish people, and executed the notorious Jew-baiter, <NAME> in 1962.
Precedent	Recently, on April 9, 1979, confronted with a wave of violent incidents after the signing of Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty, Israel sanctioned the use of death penalty "for acts of inhuman cruelty".
Precedent	119.
Precedent	In India, very few scientific studies In regard to crime and punishment in genecal, and capital punishment, in particular, have been made.
Argument	Counsel for the petitioners referred us to Chap.
Precedent	VI, captioned Capital Punishment, in the book, "Quantum of Punishment in Criminal Law in India', written by Dr. <NAME>, now on the staff of <ORG>, Amritsar.
Precedent	In this article, which was primarily meant as LL.
Precedent	D. thesis, the learned author coo-eludes:  On the basis of statistics both of India and abroad, <ORG> findings and other weighty arguments, we can safely conclude that death penalty is not sustainable on merits.
Precedent	Innately it has no reformativ e element.
Precedent	It has been proved that death penalty as operative carries no deterrent value and crime of murder is governed by factors other than death penalty.
Precedent	Accordingly, I feel that the death penalty should be abolished.
Precedent	120.
Precedent	It will be seen, in the first place, that the analysis by Dr. <NAME> in coming to the conclusion, that death penalty is of no penological value, is based on stale, incomplete and inadequate statistics.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is more particularly true of the data relating to India, which does not cover the period subsequent to 1961.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly, the approach to the problem adopted by him, like the other Abolitionists referred to by him, is mainly, if not merely, statistical  121.
RatioOfTheDecision	As already noticed, the proponents of the opposite view of capital punishment, point out mat statistics alone are not determinative of the question whether or not death penalty serves any deterrent or other penological purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	Firstly, statistics of deterred potential murderers are hard to obtain.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly, the approach adopted;  by the Abolitionists is oversimplified at the cost of other relevant but imponderable factors, the appreciation of which is essential to assess the true penological value of capital punishment The number of such factors is infinitude, their character variable, duration transient and abstract formulation difficult.
RatioOfTheDecision	Conditions change from country to country and time to time.
Precedent	Due to the inconstancy of social conditions, it is not scientifically possible to assess with any degree of accuracy, as to whether the variation in the incidence of capital crime is attributable to the presence or absents of death penalty in the penal law of that country for such crimes.
Precedent	That is why statistical attempts to assess the true penological value of capital punishment, remain inconclusive.
Precedent	122.
Precedent	Pursued beyond a certain point, both the Abolitionists and the Retentionists retreat into their own conceptual bunkers firmly entrenched in their respective "faiths".
Precedent	We need not take sides with either of mem.
Precedent	There is always a danger in  adhering too rigidly to concepts.
Precedent	As Prof. <NAME> has pointed out "all concepts are abstractions from reality, and that in the process of abstraction something of the reality is bound to be lost".3 We must, therefore, view the problem against the perspective of the hard realities of the time and the conditions prevailing in the world, particularly in our own country.
Precedent	123.
Precedent	A review of the world events of the last seven or eight years, as evident from <ORG> and other material referred to by the learned Counsel, would show that most countries in the world are in the grip of an ever-rising tide of violent crime.
Precedent	Murders for monetary gain or from misdirected political motives, robbery, rape, assault are on the increase.
Precedent	India is no exception.
Precedent	<ORG> has produced for our perusal a statement of facts and figures showing the incidence of violent crime, including murder, dacoity and robbery, in the various States of India, during the years 1965 to 1975.
Precedent	Another statement has b een furnished showing the number of persons convicted of murder and other capital offences and sentenced to death in some of the States of India during the period 1974 to 1978.
Precedent	This statement however, is incomplete and inadequate.
Precedent	On account of that deficiency and for the general reasons set out above, it cannot, even statistically, show conclusively or with any degree of certainty, that capital punishment has no penological worth.
Precedent	But the first statement does bring out clearly the stark reality that the crimes of murder, dacoity and robbery in India are since 1965 increasing.
Precedent	124.
Precedent	Now, looking around at the world during the last decade, we may recall that in <NAME> v. Georgia (decided on June 29, 1976), <ORG> of the United States held by a majority, that the imposition and carrying out of the death penalty constitutes 'cruel and unusual' punishment, in violation of the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments.
Precedent	<NAME> and <NAME>, JJ.
Precedent	(differing from the plurality) went to the extent of holding that de ath penalty was per se unconstitutional as it was a cruel and unusual punishment In so holding, these learned Justices purported to adopt the contemporary standards of decency prevailing among the enlightened public of the United States.
Precedent	Justice <NAME> ruled that "it was morally unacceptable to the people of the United States".
Precedent	This opinion of the learned Justices was sharply rebuffed by the people of the United States through their chosen representatives.
Precedent	Soon after the decision in Furman, bowing to the thrust of public opinion, the <ORG> of no less than 32 States, post-baste revised their penal laws and reinstituted death penalty for murder and certain other crimes.
Precedent	Public opinion polls then taken show that approximately 70 per cent of Americans have been in favour of death penalty.
Precedent	(See <ORG>, supra).
Precedent	In 1976, a Gallup Poll taken in the United States showed that more than 65 per cent of those polled preferred to have an operative death penalty.
Precedent	125.
Precedent	Incidentally, the rejection by the people  of the approach adopted by the two learned Judges in <NAME>, furnishes proof of the fact that judicial opinion does not necessarily reflect the moral attitudes of the people.
Precedent	At the same time, it is a reminder that Judges should not take upon themselves the responsibility of becoming oracles or spokesmen of public opinion: Not being representatives of the people, it is often better, as a matter of judicial restraint, to leave the function of assessing public opinion to the chosen representatives of the people in the legislature concerned.
Precedent	126.
Precedent	Coming back to the review of the world crime situation, during the last decade, Saudi Arabia and some other countries have reinstated death penalty or enacted harsher punishments not only for murder but for some other crimes, also.
Precedent	In America, apart from 32 States which reinstated death penalty under revised laws after <NAME>, the legislatures of some of the remaining 15 States have either reinstituted or are considering to reintroduce death penalty.
Precedent	Currently, a feder al legislation for reinstituting or prescribing capital punishment for a larger range of offences of homicide is under consideration of United States' <ORG>.
Precedent	According to the report of <ORG>, hi U.S.A., as on May 1, 1979, death penalty can be imposed for aggravated murder in 35 States.
Precedent	Attempts have been made in other countries, also to reintroduce death penalty.
Precedent	In Britain, in the wake of serious violent incidents of terrorism, a Bill was moved in <ORG> to reintroduce capital punishment for murder and certain other offences.
Precedent	It was defeated by a free vote on April 19, 1979.
Precedent	Even so, no less than 243 members of <ORG> had voted in favour of this measure.
Precedent	We have noted that Israel has also recently reintroduced death penalty for certain criminal 'acts of inhuman cruelty'.
Precedent	In <ORG>, a new legislation was adopted on July 1, 1979 by China's <ORG>, according to Article 43 of which, death penalty can be imposed "for the most heinous crimes".
Precedent	In Argentina, th e death penalty was reintroduced in 1976.
Precedent	Similarly, Belgium reintroduced death penalty and increased the number of crimes punishable with death.
Precedent	In France, in 1978, a movement in favour of abolition initiated by the French bishops failed to change the law under which death penalty is a valid sanction for murder and certain other offences.
Precedent	In Japan, death penalty is a legal sanction for 13 crimes.
Precedent	In Greece and Turkey, death penalty can be imposed for murder and other capital offences.
Precedent	In Malaysia and the Republic of Singapore under the Drugs Act of May, 1979, misuse of drugs is also punishable with death.
Precedent	Cuba introduced a new penal code in Feb., 1978, which provides punishment of death by shooting for crimes ranging from some types of murder and robbery to hijacking and rape.
Precedent	127.
Precedent	In the U.S.S.
Precedent	R. (Russia), as many as 18 offences are punishable with death.
Fact	In Russia, at present, the following offences committed in peacetime are punishable with death under the RSFSR Criminal Code:  Treason ( Article 64 ); e spionage ( Article 65 ); terrorism (if the offence includes the killing of an official ( Article 66 ); terrorism against representative of foreign <ORG> (if the offence includes the killing of such a representative "for the purpose of provoking War or international complications") ( Art.
Fact	67 ); sabotage ( Article 68 ); organizing the commission of any of the above-named offences ( Article 72 ); commission of any of the above-named offences against other Working People's <ORG> ( Article, 73 ); banditry ( Article 77 ); actions disrupting the work of corrective labour institutions ( Article 77(1); making or passing counterfeit money or securities (when the offence is committed as a form of business) ( Article 87 ); violation of rules for currency transactions (when committed as a, form of business or on a large scale, or by a person previously convicted under this Article) ( Article 88 ); stealing of <ORG> properly on an especially large scale, regardless of the manner of stealing ( Article 93(1); intentional hom icide with aggravating circumstances ( Article 102 ); rape, when committed by a group of persons or by an especially dangerous recidivist, or resulting in especially grave consequences, or the rape of a minor ( Article 117 ); taking a bribe, with especially aggravating circumstances ( Article 173 ); infringing the life of a policeman or <ORG>, with aggravating circumstances ( Article 19(2); hijacking an aircraft, if the offence results in, death or serious physical injuries ( Article 213(2); resisting a superior or compelling him to violate official duties, an offence applicable only to military personnel, and carrying the death penalty in peace-time if committed in conjunction with intentional homicide of a superior or any other person performing military duties ( Article 240 ).
Fact	(vide, <ORG>, 1979).
Fact	Our object in making the above survey is to bring out the hard fact that in spite of the Abolitionist movement, only 18 States (as on 30th May, 1979) in the world have abolish ed the death penalty for all offences, while 8 more have retained it for specific offences committed in time of war, only.
Fact	(See Amnesty International Report (1979), page 92).
Fact	This means, most of the countries in the modern world still retain death penalty as a legal sanction for certain specified offences.
Fact	The countries which retain death penalty in their penal laws, such as, Russia, U.S.A., France, Belgium, Malaysia, China and Japan, etc., cannot, by any standard, be called uncivilized nations or immature societies.
Fact	128.
Fact	Surveyors and students of world events and current trends believe that the reversal of the attitudes towards criminals and their judicial punishments in general, and capital punishment in particular, in several countries of the world, is partly due to the fact that milder sanctions or corrective processes, or even the alternative of imprisonment, have been found inadequate and wanting to stem the mounting tide of serious crime.
Fact	Writing in <ORG>, 1978 Book of the Year unde r the caption, 'Changing Attitudes Towards Criminals", <NAME> sums up the cause that has led to the adoption of this New Hard Line, thus:  Horror story after horror story of dangerous criminals sent back into society on bail or parole from a penitentiary or (in many cases) release from a mental institution to commit further crimes nave forced people to say that enough is enough.
Fact	The consensus seemed to be that there must be no repetition of such situations as the one described by Chicago some time Columnist <NAME> in a Sep. 4, 1977, article about a man who had just been convicted of a particularly despicable crime.
Fact	129.
Fact	Faced with the specter of rising crime, people and sociologists alike, have started questioning the rehabilitation policy.
Fact	In California another study from <ORG>-operation, suggests that keeping habitual criminals locked up would do more to reduce crime than any rehabilitation efforts.
Fact	Despite treatment or preventive measures, habitual criminals commonly go back to cr ime after they are released from prison, the study showed.
Fact	In addition, the study found that deterrence to crime was in direct proportion to the relative certainty of going to jail, after being caught.
Fact	130.
Fact	According to Encyclopaedia Britannica Year Book 1979, in 1978 also penologists were seriously divided in their views about the end of punishment.
Fact	Some penologists argued that "It is not possible to punish and reform simultaneously"; while "others would prefer to strip punishment of its moral overtones".
Fact	"While many legislators and most penologists have supported the idea that reform ought to take priority in dealing with offenders, many Judges - especially in Britain and the United States.
Fact	where rising crime rates are the source of much public concern - have expressed grave doubts about the wisdom of this view.
Fact	They have argued that the courts must reflect a public abhorrence of crime and that justice demands that some attempt be made to impose punishment fitting to the crime".
Fact	131.
Fact	India also, as the st atistics furnished by the respondent (<ORG>) show, is afflicted by a rising rate of violent crime, particularly murder, armed robbery and dacoity etc., and this has been the cause of much public concern.
Fact	All attempts made by individual members to move Bills in the <ORG> for abolition or restriction of the area of death penalty have ended in failure.
Fact	At least four of such unsuccessful attempts were made after India won Independence, in 1949, 1958, 1961 and 1978.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be noted that the last of these attempts was only to restrict the death penalty to a few types of murders specified in the Bill.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though it was passed by <ORG> after being recast, it has not been passed by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	131.
RatioOfTheDecision	To sum up, the question whether or not death penalty serves any penological purpose is a difficult, complex and intractable issue.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has evoked strong, divergent views.
RatioOfTheDecision	For the purpose of testing the constitutionality of the impugned provision as to death penalty in Section 302 , Penal Code on the groun d of reasonableness in the light Of Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution, it is not necessary for us to express any categorical opinion, one way or the other, as to which of these two antithetical views, held by the Abolitionists and Retentionists, is correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is sufficient to say that the very fact that persons of reason, learning and light are rationally and deeply divided in their opinion on this issue, is a ground among others, for rejecting the petitioner's argument that retention of death penalty in the impugned provision, is totally devoid of reason and purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	If, notwithstanding the view of the Abolitionists to the contrary, a very large segment of people, the world over, including sociologists, legislators, jurists, judges and administrators still firmly believe in the worth and necessity of capital punishment for the protection of society, if in the perspective of prevailing crime conditions in India, contemporary public opinion channelized through the people's representatives in <ORG>,  has repeatedly in the last three decades, rejected all attempts, including the one made recently, to abolish or specifically restrict the area of death penalty, if death penalty is still a recognised legal sanction for murder or some types of murder in most of the civilised countries in the world, if the!
RatioOfTheDecision	framers of the Indian Constitution were fully aware as we shall presently show they were of the existence of death penalty as punishment for murder, under the Indian Penal Code , if the 35th Report and subsequent Reports of <ORG> suggesting retention of death penalty, and recommending revision of the Criminal Procedure Code and the insertion of the new Sections 235(2) and 354(3) in that Code providing for pre-sentence hearing and sentencing procedure on conviction for murder and other capital offences were before the <ORG> and presumably considered by it when in 1972-1973 it took up revision of the Code of 1898 and replaced it by the CrPC , 1973, it is not possible to hold that the provisio n of death penalty as an alternative punishment for murder, in Section 302 , Penal Code is unreasonable and not in the public interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	We would, therefore, conclude that the impugned provision in Section 302 , violates neither the letter or the ethos of Article 19.
Precedent	133.
Precedent	We will now consider the issue whether the impugned limb of the provision in Section 302 , Penal Code contravenes Article 21 of the Constitution.
Precedent	134.
Precedent	Before dealing with the contentions canvassed on the point, it will be proper to notice briefly the principles which should inform the interpretation of Art 21.
Precedent	135.
Precedent	In <NAME> case, which was a decision by a Bench of seven learned Judges, it was held by <NAME>, J. in his concurring judgment, that the expression 'personal liberty' in Article 21 is of the widest amplitude and it covers a variety of rights which go to constitute the personal liberty of man and some of them have been raised to the status of distinct fundamental rights under Article 19. it was further observed that Ar ticles 14, 19 and 21 are not to be interpreted in water-tight compartments, and consequently, a law depriving a person of personal liberty and prescribing a procedure for that purpose within the meaning of Article 21 has to stand the test of one or more of the fundamental rights conferred under Article 19 which may be applicable in a given situation, exhypothesi it must also be liable to be tested with reference to Article 14.
Precedent	The principle of reasonableness pervades all the three Articles, with the result, that the procedure contemplated by Article 21 must be 'right and just and fair' and not 'arbitrary, fanciful or oppressive", otherwise, it should be no procedure at all and the requirement of Article 21 would not be satisfied.
Precedent	136.
Statute	Article 21 reads as under:  No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.
Statute	If this Article is expanded in accordance with the interpretative principle indicated in <NAME>, it will read as follows:  No person  shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to fair, just and reasonable procedure established by Valid law.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the converse positive form, the expanded Article will read as below:  A person may be deprived of his life or personal liberty in accordance with fair, just and reasonable procedure established by Valid law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus expanded and read for interpretative purposes, Article 21 clearly brings out the implication, that the Founding Fathers recognised the right of the <ORG> to deprive a person of his life or personal liberty in accordance with fair, just and reasonable procedure established by valid law.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are several other indications, also, in the Constitution which show that the Constitution makers were fully cognizant of the existence of death penalty for murder and certain other offences in the Indian Penal Code .
RatioOfTheDecision	Entries 1 and 2 in List in - Concurrent List - of the Seventh Schedule, specifically refer to the Indian Penal Code and the CrPC as in force at the commencement of  the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 72(1)(c) specifically invests the President with power to suspend, remit as commute the sentence of any person convicted of any offence, and also "in all cases where the sentence is a sentence of death".
RatioOfTheDecision	Likewise, under Article 161 , the Governor of a <ORG> has been given power to suspend, remit or commute, inter alia, the sentence of death of any person convicted of murder or other capital offence relating to a matter to which the executive power of the <ORG> extends.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 134 , in terms, gives a right of appeal to <ORG> to a person who, on appeal, is sentenced to death by <ORG>, after reversal of his acquittal by the trial Court Under the successive Criminal Procedure Code s which have been in force for about 100 years, a sentence of death is to be carried out by hanging.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the aforesaid constitutional postulates, by no stretch of imagination can it be said that death penalty under Section 302 , Penal Code , either per se or because of its executio n by hanging, constitutes an unreasonable, cruel or unusual punishment.
RatioOfTheDecision	By reason of the same constitutional postulates, it cannot be said that the framers of the Constitution considered death sentence for murder or the prescribed traditional mode of its execution as a degrading punishment which would defile "the dignity of the individual" within the contemplation of the Preamble to the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	On parity of reasoning, it cannot be said that death penalty for the offence of murder violates the basic structure of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	137.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before we pass on the main Question No.
RatioOfTheDecision	II, we may dispose of another contention canvassed by Dr. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	138.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is pointed out that India, as a member of <ORG>, was a participating delegate at the international conference that made the Stockholm Declaration on December 11, 1977, that India has also accepted the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights adopted by <ORG>, which came into force on  March 23, 1966, and to which some 47 countries, including India, are a party.
RatioOfTheDecision	This being the position, it is stressed, India stands committed to the abolition of the death penalty.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is contended that the constitutional validity and interpretation of the impugned limb of Section 302 , Penal Code , and the sentencing procedure for capital cases provided in Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1973, must be considered in the light of the aforesaid Stockholm Declaration and the International Covenant, which represent the evolving attitudes and standards of decency in a maturing world.
RatioOfTheDecision	139.
RatioOfTheDecision	Let us examine this contention.
RatioOfTheDecision	The European Convention of Human Rights came into force on September 1, 1953, and 18 countries had signed this Convention on November 4, 1950.
RatioOfTheDecision	India acceded to this Resolution of the Convention on March 27, 1979.
RatioOfTheDecision	The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, inter alia, provides:  Article 6(1) Every human being has the inherent right to life.
RatioOfTheDecision	This right shall be protected by law.
RatioOfTheDecision	No one sh all be arbitrarily deprived of his life.
RatioOfTheDecision	(2) In countries which have not abolished the death penalty, sentence of death may be imposed only for the most serious crimes in accordance with the law in force at the time of the commission of the crime....
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be seen that Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 6 do not abolish or prohibit the imposition of death penalty, in all circumstances.
RatioOfTheDecision	All that they require is that, firstly, death penalty shall not be arbitrarily inflicted; secondly, it shall be imposed only for most serious crimes in accordance with a law, which shall not be an ex post facto legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus the requirements of these clauses are substantially the same as the guarantees or prohibitions contained in Articles 29 and 21 of our Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	India's commitment therefore does not go beyond what is provided in the Constitution and the Indian Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code .
RatioOfTheDecision	The Penal Code prescribes death penalty as an alternative punishment only for heinous crimes which are not more t han seven in number.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 354(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, as we shall presently discuss, in keeping with the spirit of the International Covenant, has further restricted the area of death penalty.
RatioOfTheDecision	India's penal laws, including the impugned provisions and their application, are thus entirely in accord with its international commitment  140.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be pertinent to note that most of the countries including those who have subscribed to this International Covenant, retain death penalty for murder and certain other crimes even to the present day in their penal laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	Neither the new interpretative dimensions given to Articles 19 and 21 by this <ORG> in <CITATION_1518037> nor the acceptance by India of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, makes any change in the prevailing standards of decency and human dignity by which counsel require us to judge the constitutional validity of the impugned provisions.
Precedent	The International Covenant, as already noticed, does not outlaw capital punish ment for murder, altogether.
Precedent	141.
Precedent	For all the foregoing reasons, we would answer the first main question in the negative.
Precedent	This takes us to Question No, II.
Precedent	Question No.
Precedent	II.
Precedent	142.
Precedent	Are the provisions of Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1973 unconstitutional?
Precedent	That is the question.
Precedent	The constitutional validity of Section 354(3) is assailed on these grounds:  (i) (a).
Precedent	Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1973, delegates to the <ORG> the duty to legislate in the field of 'special reasons' for choosing between life and death, and  (b) permits imposition of death penalty in an arbitrary and whimsical manner inasmuch as it does not lay down any rational principles or criteria for invoking this extreme sanction.
Precedent	(Reliance has been placed on <NAME> v. Georgia (Ibid.))
Precedent	(ii) If Section 354(3) is to be saved from the vice of unconstitutionality, the <ORG> should so interpret it and define its scope that the imposition of death penalty comes to be restricted only to those types of grave murders and capital offences which imperil the ver y existence and security of the <ORG>.
Precedent	(Reliance for this argument has been placed on <NAME> case (Ibid).)
Precedent	143.
Precedent	As against this, the learned Solicitor-General submits that the policy of the law in the matter of imposition of death sentence is writ large and dear in Section 354(3) , namely, that life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence an exception; that the correct approach should be to apply this policy to the relevant facts of the particular case, bearing on the question of sentence, and to find out if there are any exceptional reasons justifying imposition of the death penalty, as a departure from the normal rule.
RatioOfTheDecision	144.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is submitted that conferment of such sentencing discretion on the courts, to be exercised judicially, in no sense, amounts to delegation of the legislative powers by <ORG>  145.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> further submits that there is no inherent impossibility in formulating broad guidelines consistent with the policy indicated by the legislature, for the exercise of the judic ial functions under Section 354(3) .
RatioOfTheDecision	He emphasises that only broad guidelines, as distinct from rigid rules, can be laid down by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since the discretion proceeds the argument is to be exercised judicially after taking into consideration all the aggravating and mitigating circumstances relating to the crime and the criminal in a particular case, and ample safeguards by way of appeal and reference to the superior courts against erroneous or arbitrary exercise of the sentencing discretion have been provided, Section 354(3) cannot be said to be violative of Articles 14, 19 and 21 or anything else in the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	146.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before embarking upon a discussion of the arguments advanced on both sides, it is necessary to have a peep into the history and legislative background of the procedural provisions relating to sentencing in the CrPC .
RatioOfTheDecision	147.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the CrPC , 1898, as it stood before its amendment by Act No.
RatioOfTheDecision	26 of 1955, even for the seven offences mentioned earlier, which are punishable in the alternative  with death, the normal sentence was the death sentence, and if the <ORG> wanted to depart from this rule, it had to give reasons for doing so.
Statute	This requirement was embodied in Sub-section (5) of Section 367 , which, as it then stood, was as follows: "If the accused is convicted of an offence punishable with death and the <ORG> sentences him to any punishment other than death, the <ORG> shall in its judgment state the reason why sentence of death was not passed.
RatioOfTheDecision	148.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> in its 35th Report (Vol.
RatioOfTheDecision	I), made the following comments on this provision:  ...a considerable body of opinion is in favour of a provision requiring the <ORG> to state its reasons for imposing the punishment either of death or of imprisonment for life.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further, this would be good safeguard to ensure that the lower courts examine the case as elaborately from the point of view of sentence as from the point of view of guilt....
RatioOfTheDecision	It would increase the confidence of the people, in the courts, by showing that the discretion is judicia lly exercised It would also facilitate the task of <ORG> in appeal or in proceedings for confirmation in respect of the sentence (where the sentence awarded is that of death) or in proceedings in revision for enhancement of the sentence (where the sentence awarded is one of imprisonment for life)" In deference to this recommendation, Section 66 of the CrPC (Amendment) Act, 1955 (XXVI of 1955) deleted old Sub-section (5) of Section 367 with effect from January 1, 1956, and thereafter, for such capital offences, it was left to the <ORG>, on the facts of each case, to pass, in its discretion, for reasons to be recorded, the sentence of death or the lesser sentence.
RatioOfTheDecision	This led to some difference of opinion whether, even after the Amendment of 1955, in case of murder the normal punishment was death or imprisonment for life; (See A.I.R.
RatioOfTheDecision	Commentaries on the CrPC , Vol.
RatioOfTheDecision	3, page 565, by <NAME> and <NAME>).
Precedent	Overruling its earlier decision, the Bombay High <ORG> in the <CITATION_409943> , held that d eath is not a normal penalty for murder.
Precedent	As against this, <ORG> of the Madras High <ORG> in Valuchami Thevar AIR 1965 Mad 48 at p. 49 held that death was the normal punishment where there were no extenuating circumstances.
Precedent	The third set of cases held that both the sentences were normal but the discretion as regards sentence was to be exercised in the light of facts and circumstances of the case.
Precedent	149.
Precedent	This view appears to be in accord with the decision of this <ORG> in <CITATION_1384903> .
Precedent	In that case, there was a clear finding by <ORG> which had been upheld by <ORG>, that each of the two appellants therein, committed a cold-blooded murder by shooting two inmates of the house simply with the object of facilitating commission of dacoity by them.
Precedent	Those persons were shot and killed even though they had not tried to put up any resistance.
Precedent	It was held by this <ORG> (speaking through Bhargava, I.)
Precedent	that in these circumstances where the murders were committed in cold-blood with t he sole object of committing dacoity, the Sessions Judge had not exercised his discretion judicially in not imposing the death sentence, and <ORG> was justified in enhancing the sentence of the appellants from life imprisonment to death.
Precedent	150.
Precedent	<NAME> case, which we shall notice presently in further detail, proceeds on the hypothesis that even after the deletion of Sub-section (5) of Section 367 in the Code of 1898, both the alternative sentences provided in Section 302 , Penal code are normal punishment for murder, and the choice of either sentence rest, in the discretion of the <ORG> which is to be exercised judicially, after taking into account all the relevant circumstances of the case.
Precedent	151.
Precedent	Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1973, marks a significant shift in the legislative policy underlying the Code of 1898, as in force immediately before April 1, 1974, according to which both the alternative sentences of death or imprisonment for life provided for murder and for certain other capital offen ces under the Penal Code , were normal sentences.
Precedent	Now according to this changed legislative policy which is patent on the face of Section 354(3) , the normal punishment for murder and six other capital offences under the Penal Code , is imprisonment for life (or imprisonment for a term of years) and death penalty is an exception.
Precedent	<ORG> in its Report, stated the object and reason of making this change, as follows:  A sentence of death is the extreme penalty of law and it is but fair that when a <ORG> awards that sentence in a case where the alternative sentence of imprisonment for life is also available, it should give special reasons in support of the sentence.
Precedent	Accordingly, Sub-section (3) of Section 354 of the current Code provides:  When the conviction is for an offence punishable with death or, in the alternative with imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of years, the judgment shall state the reasons for the sentence awarded, and, in the case of sentence of death, t he special reasons for such sentence.
Precedent	152.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the context, we may also notice Section 235(2) of the Code of 1973, because it makes not only explicit, what according to the decision in <NAME>'s case was implicit in the scheme of the Code , but also bifurcates the trial by providing for two hearings, one at the pre-conviction stage and another at the pre-sentence stage.
RatioOfTheDecision	It requires that:  If the accused is convicted, the Judge shall, unless he proceeds in accordance with the provision of Section 360 , hear the accused on the question of sentence, and then pass sentence on him according to law.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> in its 48th Report had pointed out this deficiency in the sentencing procedure:  45.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is now being increasingly recognised that a rational and consistent sentencing policy requires the removal of several deficiencies in the present system.
RatioOfTheDecision	One such deficiency is the lack of comprehensive information as to characteristics and background at the offender.
RatioOfTheDecision	The aims of sentencing:- Themselves obscure  become all the more so in the absence of information on which the correctional process is to operate.
RatioOfTheDecision	The public as well as the courts themselves are in the dark about judicial approach in this regard.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are of the view that the taking of evidence as to the circumstances relevant to sentencing should be encouraged and both the prosecution and the accused should be allowed to co-operate in the process."
RatioOfTheDecision	By enacting Section 235(2) of the new Code, <ORG> has accepted that recommendation of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although Sub-section (2) of Section 235 does not contain a specific provision as to evidence and provides only for hearing of the accused as to sentence, yet it is implicit in this provision that if a request is made in that behalf by either the prosecution or the accused, or by both, the Judge should give the party or parties concerned an opportunity of producing evidence or material relating to the various factors bearing on the question of sentence.
RatioOfTheDecision	"Of course", as was pointed out by this Court in  <CITATION_819576> AIR 1976 SC 2386 "care would have to be taken by the <ORG> to see that this hearing on the question of sentence is not turned into an instrument for unduly protracting the proceedings.
RatioOfTheDecision	The claim of due and proper hearing would have to be harmonised with the requirement of expeditious disposal of proceedings.
Precedent	153.
Precedent	We may also notice Sections 432 , 433 and 433-A , as they throw light as to whether life imprisonment as currently administered in India, can be considered an adequate alternative to the capital sentence even in extremely heinous cases of murder.
Precedent	154.
Precedent	Sections 432 and 433 of the Code of 1973 continue Sections 401 and 402 of the Code of 1898, with necessary modifications which bring them in tune with Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution.
Statute	Section 432 invests the "appropriate Government" as (defined in Sub-section (7) of that section) with power to suspend or remit sentences.
Statute	Section 433 confers on the appropriate Government power to commute sentence, without the consent of the p erson sentenced.
Precedent	Under Clause (a) of the section, the appropriate Government may commute a sentence of death, for any other punishment provided by the Indian Penal Code .
Precedent	155.
Precedent	With effect from December 18, 1978, the CrPC (Amendment) Act , 1978, inserted new Section 433-A which runs as under:  433A.
Precedent	Restriction on power of remission or commutation in certain cases.- Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 432 , where a sentence of imprisonment foe life is imposed on conviction of a person for an offence for which death is one of the punishments provided by law, or where a sentence of death imposed on a person has been commuted under Section 433 into one of imprisonment for life, such person shall not be released from prison unless he had served at least fourteen years of imprisonment.
Precedent	156.
Precedent	It may be recalled that in Jagmohan this <ORG> had observed that, in practice, life imprisonment amounts to 12 years in prison.
Precedent	Now, Section 433-A restricts the power of remission and commutation conferred on the app ropriate Government under Sections 432 and 433 , so that a person who is sentenced to imprisonment for life or whose death sentence is commuted to imprisonment for life must serve actual imprisonment for a minimum of 14 years.
Precedent	157.
RatioOfTheDecision	We may next notice other provisions of the extant Code (corresponding to Sections 374 , 375 , 376 and 377 of the repealed Code) bearing on capital punishment.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 366(i) of the Code requires the Court passing a sentence of death to submit the proceedings to <ORG>, and further mandates that such a sentence shall not be executed unless it is confirmed by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	On such a reference for confirmation of death sentence, <ORG> is required to proceed in accordance with Sections 367 and 368 .
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 367 gives power to <ORG> to direct further inquiry to be made or additional evidence to be taken.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 368 empowers <ORG> to confirm the sentence of death or pass any other sentence warranted by law; or to annul or alter the conviction or ord er a new trial or acquit the accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 369 enjoins that in every case so submitted, the confirmation of the sentence, or any new sentence or order passed by <ORG>, shall, when such court consists of two or more Judges, be made, passed and signed by at least two of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 370 provides that where any such case is heard before a Bench of Judges and such Judges are equally divided in opinion, the case shall be referred to a third Judge.
RatioOfTheDecision	158.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this fasciculus of sections relating to confirmation proceedings in <ORG>, the <ORG> has provided valuable safeguards of the life and liberty of the subject in cases of capital sentences.
RatioOfTheDecision	These provisions seek to ensure mat where in a capital case, the life of tide convicted person if at stake, the entire evidential material bearing on the innocence as guilt of the accused and the question of sentence must be scrutinised with utmost caution and care by a superior <ORG>  159.
RatioOfTheDecision	The High <ORG> has been given very wide powers under these p rovisions to prevent any possible miscarriage of justice.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1456106> this Court reiterated, with emphasis, that while dealing with a reference for confirmation of a sentence of death, <ORG> must consider the proceedings in all their aspects, reappraise, reassess and reconsider the entire facts and law and, if necessary, after taking additional evidence, come to its own conclusions on the material on record in regard to the conviction of the accused (and the sentence) independently of the view expressed by the Sessions Judge.
RatioOfTheDecision	160.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, where on appeal, <ORG> reverses an acquittal, and convicts the accused person and sentences him to death, Section 379 of the Code of 1973, gives him a right of appeal to <ORG> Finally, there is Article 136 of the Constitution under which <ORG> is empowered, in its discretion, to entertain an appeal on behalf of a person whose sentence of death awarded by the Sessions Judge is confirmed by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	161.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the light  of the above conspectus, we will now consider the effect of the aforesaid legislative changes on the authority and efficacy of the propositions laid down by this <ORG> in <NAME>'s case.
RatioOfTheDecision	These propositions may be summed up as under:  (i) The general legislative policy that underlies the structure of our criminal law, principally contained in the Indian Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code , is to define an offence with sufficient clarity and to prescribe only the maximum punishment therefor, and to allow a very wide discretion to the Judge in the matter of fixing the degree of punishment.
RatioOfTheDecision	With the solitary exception of Section 303 , the same policy permeates Section 302 and some other sections of the Penal Code , where me maximum punishment is the death penalty.
RatioOfTheDecision	(ii) (a) No exhaustive enumeration of aggravating or mitigating circumstances which should be considered when sentencing an offender, is possible.
RatioOfTheDecision	"The infinite variety of cases and facets to each case would make general standards either mean ingless 'boiler plate' or a statement of the obvious that no Jury (Judge) would need."
RatioOfTheDecision	(Referred to <NAME> v. California (1971) 402 US 183).
RatioOfTheDecision	(b) The impossibility of laying down standards is at the very core of the criminal law as administered in India which invests the Judges with a very wide discretion in the matter of fixing the degree of punishment.
RatioOfTheDecision	(iii) The view taken by the plurality in <NAME> v. Georgia decided by <ORG> of the United States, to the effect, that a law which gives uncontrolled and un-guided discretion to the Jury (or the Judge) to choose arbitrarily between a sentence of death and imprisonment for a capital offence, violates the Eighth Amendment, is not applicable in India.
RatioOfTheDecision	We do not have in out Constitution any provision like the Eighth Amendment, nor are we at liberty to apply the test of reasonableness with the freedom with which the Judges of <ORG> of America are accustomed to apply "the due process" clause.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are grave doubts about the expediency of t ransplanting western experience in our country.
RatioOfTheDecision	Social conditions are different and so also the general intellectual level.
RatioOfTheDecision	Arguments which would be valid in respect of one area of the world may not hold good in respect of another area.
RatioOfTheDecision	(iv) (a) This discretion in the matter of sentence is to be exercised by the Judge judicially, after balancing all the aggravating and mitigating circumstances of the crime.
RatioOfTheDecision	(b) The discretion is liable to be corrected by superior courts.
RatioOfTheDecision	The exercise of judicial discretion on well-recognised principles is, in the final analysis, the safest possible safeguard for the accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the above, it will be impossible to say that there would be at all any discrimination, since crime as crime may appear to be superficially the same but the facts and circumstances of a crime are widely different Thus considered, the provision in Section 302 , Penal Code is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution on the ground that it confers on the Judges an un-guided and uncontrolle d discretion in the matter of awarding capital punishment or imprisonment for life.
RatioOfTheDecision	(v) (a) Relevant facto and circumstances Impinging on the nature and circumstances of the crime can be brought before the <ORG> at the pre-conviction stage, notwithstanding the fact that no formal procedure for producing evidence regarding such facto and circumstances had been specifically provided.
RatioOfTheDecision	When counsel addresses the <ORG> with regard to the character and standing of the accused, they are duly considered by the <ORG> unless there is something in the evidence itself which belies him or the Public Prosecutor challenges the facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	(b) It is to be emphasised that in exercising its discretion to choose either of the two alternative sentences provided in Section 302 , Penal Code , "the <ORG> is principally concerned with the facts and circumstances Whether aggravating or mitigating, which are connected with the particular crime under inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	All such facts and circumstances are capable of being proved in accordance With  the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act in a trial regulated by the Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. The trial does not come to an end until all the relevant facts are proved and the counsel on both sides have an opportunity to address the Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	The only thing that remains is for the Judge to decide on the guilt and punishment and that is what Sections 306(2) and 309(2) , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. purport to provide for.
RatioOfTheDecision	These provisions are part of the procedure established by law and unless it is shown that they are invalid for any other reasons they must be regarded as valid.
RatioOfTheDecision	No reasons are offered to show that they are constitutionally invalid and hence the death sentence imposed after trial in accordance with the procedure established by law is not tin-constitutional under Article 21.
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis added).
RatioOfTheDecision	162.
RatioOfTheDecision	A study of the propositions set out above, will show that, in substance, the authority of none of them has been affected by the legislative changes since the decision in <NAME>'s case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course, two of them require to be adjusted  and attuned to the shift in the legislative policy.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first of those propositions is No.
RatioOfTheDecision	(iv) (a) which postulates, that according to the then extant CrPC both the alternative sentences provided in Section 302 , Penal Code are normal sentences, and the <ORG> can, therefore, after weighing the aggravating and mitigating circumstances of the particular case, in its discretion, impose either of those sentences.
RatioOfTheDecision	This postulate has now been modified by Section 354(3) which mandates the <ORG> convicting a person for an offence punishable with death or, in the alternative with imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of years, not to ins-pose the sentence of death on that person unless there are "special reasons" - to be recorded - for such sentence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression "special reasons" in the context of this provision, obviously means "exceptional reasons" founded on the exceptionally grave circumstances of the particular case relating to the crime as well as the criminal.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, the legislative policy now wri t large and clear on the face of Section 354(3) is that on conviction for murder and other capital offences punishable in the alternative with death under the Penal Code , the extreme penalty should be imposed only hi extreme cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	163.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this view we are in accord with the dictum of this <ORG> in <CITATION_377617> , wherein the interpretation of Section 354(3) first came up for consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	After surveying the legislative background, one of us (<NAME>, J.)
RatioOfTheDecision	speaking for the <ORG>, summed up the scope and implications of Section 354(3) , thus:  Under this provision the <ORG> is required to state the reasons for the sentence awarded and in the case of sentence of death, special reasons are required to be stated.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would thus be noticed that awarding of the sentence other than the sentence of death is the general rule now and only special reasons, that is to say, special facts and circumstances in a given case, will warrant the passing of the death sentence.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is unnecessary nor is it possible to make a  catalogue of the special reasons which may justify the passing of the death sentence in a case.
RatioOfTheDecision	While applying proposition (iv) (a), therefore, the <ORG> has to bear in mind this fundamental principle of policy embodied in Section 354(3) .
RatioOfTheDecision	164.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another proposition, the application of which, to an extent, is affected by the legislative changes, is No.
RatioOfTheDecision	(v).
RatioOfTheDecision	In portion (a) of that proposition, it is said that circumstances impinging on the nature and circumstances of the crime can be brought on record before the pre-conviction stage.
RatioOfTheDecision	In portion (b), it is emphasised that while making choice of the sentence under Section 302 , Penal Code , the <ORG> is principally concerned with the circumstances connected with the particular crime under inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, Section 235(2) provides for a bifurcated trial and specifically gives the accused person a right of pre-sentence hearing, at which stage, he can bring on record material or evidence, which may not be strictly relevant to or connected with the particular crime und er inquiry, but nevertheless, have, consistently with the policy underlined in Section 354(3) a bearing on the choice of sentence.
Precedent	The present legislative policy discernible from Section 235(2) read with Section 354(3) is that in fixing the degree of punishment or making the choice of sentence for various offences, including one under Section 302 , Penal Code , the <ORG> should not confine its consideration "principally" or merely to the circumstances connected with particular crime, but also give due consideration to the circumstances of the criminal.
Precedent	165.
Precedent	Attuned to the legislative policy delineated in Sections 354(3) and 235(2) , propositions (iv) (a) and (v) (b) in Jagmohan, shall have to be recast and may be stated as below:  (a) The normal rule is that the offence of murder shall be punished with the sentence of life imprisonment.
Precedent	The court can depart from that rule and impose the sentence of death only if there are special reasons for doing so.
Precedent	Such reasons must be recorded in writing before imposing  the death sentence,  (b) While considering the question of sentence to be imposed for the offence of murder under Section 302 Penal Code; the court must have regard to every relevant circumstance relating to the crime as well as the criminal.
Precedent	If the court finds, but not otherwise, that the offence is of an exceptionally depraved and heinous character and constitutes, on account of its design and the manner of its execution, a source of grave danger to the society at large, the court may impose the death sentence.
Precedent	166.
Precedent	The soundness or application of the other propositions in Jagmohan.
Precedent	and the premises on which they rest, are not affected in any way by the legislative changes since effected.
Precedent	On the contrary, these changes reinforce the reasons given in Jagmohan, for holding that the impugned provisions of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code do not offend Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution.
Precedent	Now, <ORG> has in Section 354(3) given a broad and clear guideline which is to serve the purpose of l odestar to the court in the exercise of its sentencing discretion.
Precedent	<ORG> has advisedly not restricted this sentencing discretion further, as, in its legislative judgment, it is neither possible nor desirable to do so.
Precedent	<ORG> could not but be aware that since the Amending Act 26 of 1955, death penalty has been imposed by courts on an extremely small percentage of persons convicted of murder - a fact which demonstrates that courts have generally exercised their discretion in inflicting this extreme penalty with great circumspection, caution and restraint.
Precedent	Cognizant of the past experience of the administration of death penalty in India, <ORG>, in its wisdom thought it best and safe to leave the imposition of this gravest punishment in gravest cases of murder, to the judicial discretion of the courts which are manned by persons of reason, experience and standing in the profession.
Precedent	The exercise of this sentencing discretion cannot be said to be untrammelled and unguided.
Precedent	It is exercised judicially in  accordance with well-recognised principles crystallised by judicial decisions, directed along the broad contours of legislative policy towards the signposts enacted in Section 354(3) .
Precedent	167.
RatioOfTheDecision	The new Section 235(2) adds to the number of several other safeguards which were embodied in the Criminal Procedure Code of 1898 and have been re-enacted in the Code of 1973.
RatioOfTheDecision	Then, the errors in the exercise of this guided judicial discretion are liable to be corrected by the superior courts.
RatioOfTheDecision	The procedure provided in Criminal Procedure Code for imposing capital punishment for murder and some other capital crimes under the Penal Code cannot, by any reckoning, be said to be unfair, unreasonable and unjust.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nor can it be said that this sentencing discretion, with which the courts are invested, amounts to delegation of its power of legislation by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The argument to that effect is entirely misconceived.
Precedent	We would, therefore, re-affirm the view taken by this Court in Jagmohan, and hold that the impugned provisions do  not violate Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution.
Precedent	168.
Precedent	Now, remains the question whether this Court can lay down standards or norms restricting the area of the imposition of death penalty to a narrow category of murders.
Precedent	169.
Precedent	Dr. <NAME> contends that the wide observations in Jagmohan as to the impossibility of laying down standards or norms in the matter of sentencing are too sweeping.
Precedent	It is submitted that soon after the decision in <NAME>, several States in U.S.A. amended their penal statutes and brought them in conformity with the requirements of <NAME>.
Precedent	Support has also been sought for this argument from <NAME> v. Georgia wherein <ORG> of the United States held that the concerns expressed in <NAME> decision that death penalty may not be imposed in as arbitrary or capricious manner could be met by a carefully drafted statute ensuring that the sentencing authority was given adequate guidance and information for determining the appropriate sentence, a bifurcated sentencing proceeding being  preferable as a general proposition.
Precedent	170.
Precedent	If by "laying down standards", it is meant that 'murder' should be categorised beforehand according to the degree of its culpability and all the aggravating and mitigating circumstances should be exhaustively and rigidly enumerated so as to exclude all free-play of discretion, the argument merits rejection.
Precedent	171.
Precedent	As pointed out in <NAME>.
Precedent	such "standardisation" is well-nigh impossible.
Precedent	172.
Precedent	Firstly, there is little agreement among penologists and jurists as to what information about the crime and criminal is relevant and what is not relevant for fixing the dose of punishment for person convicted of a particular offence.
Precedent	According to <NAME>, who is supposed to be the intellectual progenitor of today's fixed sentencing movement, 'crimes are only to be measured by the Injury done to society'.
Precedent	But the 20th Century sociologists do not wholly agree with this view.
Precedent	In the opinion of <NAME>, the "seriousness of a crime depends both on the harm done for riske d) by the act and degree of the actor's culpability".
Precedent	But how is the degree of that culpability to be measured ?
Precedent	Can any thermometer be devised to measure its degree ?
Precedent	This is very baffling, difficult and intricate problem.
Precedent	173.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly, criminal cases do not fall into set-behavioristic patterns.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>ven within a single-category offence there are Infinite, unpredictable and unforeseeable variations.
RatioOfTheDecision	No two cases are exactly identical.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are countless permutations and combinations which are beyond the anticipatory capacity of the human calculus.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>ach case presents its own distinctive features, its peculiar combinations of events and its unique configuration of facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	"Simply in terms of blame-worthiness or desert criminal cases are different from one another in ways that legislatures cannot anticipate, and limitations of language prevent the precise description of differences that can be anticipated".
RatioOfTheDecision	*(Messenger and <NAM<NAME>>) This is particularly true of murder.
RatioOfTheDecision	"There is probably no offence'.
Precedent	observed Sir <NAME> <NAME>, Chairman of <ORG>, "that varies so widely both in character and in moral guilt as that which falls within the legal definition of murder".
Precedent	The futility of attempting to lay down exhaustive standards was demonstrated by this Court in Jagmohan by citing the instance of the Model Penal Code which was presented to the American <ORG> in Me Goutha.
Precedent	174.
Precedent	Thirdly, a standardisation of the sentencing process which leaves little room for judicial discretion to take account of variations in culpability within single-offence category ceases to be Judicial.
Precedent	It tends to sacrifice justice at the altar of blind uniformity.
Precedent	Indeed, there Is a real danger of such mechanical standardisation degenerating into a bed of Procrustean cruelty.
Precedent	175.
Precedent	Fourthly, standardisation or sentencing discretion is a policy matter which belongs to the sphere of legislation.
Precedent	When <ORG> as a matter of sound legislative policy, did not deliberately restrict, control or standardise the sentencing discretion  any further than that is encompassed by the broad contours delineated in Section 354(3) , the <ORG> would not by over-leaping its bounds rush to do what <ORG>, in its wisdom, warily did not do,  176.
Precedent	We must leave unto the legislature, the things that are <ORG>'s.
Precedent	"The highest judicial duty is to recognise the limits on judicial power and to permit the democratic processes to deal with matters falling outside of those limits."
Precedent	As Judges, we have to resist the temptation to substitute our own value choices for the will of the people.
Precedent	Since substituted.
Precedent	judicial "made-to-order* standards, howsoever painstakingly made, do not bear the people's imprimatur, they may not have the same authenticity and efficacy as the silent zones and green belts designedly marked out and left open by <ORG> in its legislative planning for fair-play of judicial discretion to take care of the variable, unpredictable circumstances of the individual cases, relevant to individualised sentencing.
RatioOfTheDecision	When Judges, acting indivi dually or collectively, in their benign anxiety to do what they think is morally good for the people, take upon themselves the responsibility of setting; down social norms of conduct, there is every danger, despite their effort to make a rational guess of the notions of right and wrong prevailing in the community at large and despite their intention to abide by the dictates of mere reason, that they might write their own peculiar view or personal predilection into the law, sincerely mistaking that changeling for what they perceive to be the Community ethic.
RatioOfTheDecision	The perception of 'community' standards or ethics may very from Judge to Judge.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this sensitive, highly controversial area of death penalty, with all its complexity, vast implications and manifold ramifications, even all the Judges sitting cloistered in this Court and acting unanimously, cannot assume the role which properly belongs to the chosen representatives of the people in <ORG>, particularly when Judges have no divining rod to divine accurate ly the will of the people.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>, the Hon'ble Judges claimed to articulate the contemporary standards of morality among the American people.
Precedent	But speaking through public referenda, <ORG> polls and the state legislatures, the American people sharply rebuffed them.
Precedent	We must draw a lesson from the same.
Precedent	177.
Precedent	What the learned Chief Justice, who is amongst us in this case, has said recently in <NAME> v. State of Punjab Criminal Appeals Nos.
Precedent	335 etc.
Precedent	of 1977 and 81 and 82 of 1978, to the context of laying down standards In the discretionary area of anticipatory bail, comes in as a timely reminder.
Precedent	In principle, these observations aptly apply to the desirability and feasibility of laying down standards in the area of sentencing discretion, also.
Precedent	Let us therefore, hark to the same:  Generalisations on matters which rest on discretion and the attempt to discover formulae of universal application when facts are bound to differ from case to case frustrate the very purpose of conferring discretion.
Precedent	No  two cases are alike on facts and therefore, Courts have to be allowed a little free play in the joints if the conferment of discretionary power Is to be meaningful.
Precedent	There Is no risk involved in entrusting a wide discretion to <ORG> and <ORG> in granting anticipatory bail because, firstly, these are higher courts manned by experienced persons, secondly, their orders are not final but are open to appellate or revisional scrutiny and above all because, discretion has always to be exercised by courts judicially and not according to whim, caprice or fancy.
Precedent	On the other hand, there is a risk in foreclosing categories of cases in which anticipatory bail may be allowed because life throws up unforeseen possibilities and offers new challenges.
Precedent	Judicial discretion has to be free enough to be able to take these possibilities in its stride and to meet these challenges.
Precedent	While dealing with the necessity for preserving judicial discretion unhampered by rules of general application.
Precedent	<NAME> .
Precedent	said in <NAME> v. <NAME> 1912 AC 623:  I desire in the first instance to point out that the discretion given by the section is very wide.... Now it seems to me that when the Act is so express to provide a wide discretion,...it is not advisable to lay down any rigid rules for guiding that discretion.
Precedent	I do not doubt that the rules enunciated by <NAME> in the present case are useful maxims in general, and that in general they reflect the point of view from which judges would regard an application for relief.
Precedent	But I think it ought to be distinctly understood that there may be cases in which any or all of them may be disregarded.
Precedent	If it were otherwise, the free discretion given by the statute would be fettered by limitations which have nowhere been enacted.
Precedent	It is one thing to decide what is the true meaning of the language contained in an Act of Parliament, It is quite a different thing to place conditions upon a free discretion entrusted by statute to the Court where the conditions are not based upo n statutory enactment at all.
Precedent	It is not safe, I think, to say that the <ORG> must and will always insist upon certain things when the Act does not require them, and the facts of some unforeseen case may make the <ORG> wish it had kept a free hand.
Precedent	Judges have to decide cases as they come before them, mindful of the need to keep passions and prejudices out of their decisions.
Precedent	And it will be strange if, by employing judicial artifices and techniques, we cut down the discretion so wisely conferred upon the <ORG>s, by devising a formula which will confine the power to grant anticipatory bail within a strait-jacket.
Precedent	While laying down cast-iron rules in a matter like granting anticipatory bail, as the High <ORG> has done, it is apt to be overlooked that even Judges can have but an imperfect awareness of the needs of new situations.
Precedent	Life is never static and every situation has to be assessed in the context of emerging concerns as and when it arises.
Precedent	Therefore, even if we were to frame a 'Code for the grant of anti cipatory bail'.
Precedent	which really is the business of the legislature, it can at best furnish broad guidelines and cannot compel blind adherence.
Precedent	178.
Precedent	From what has been extracted above, it is clear that this <ORG>, should not venture to formulate rigid standards in an area in which the <ORG> so warily treads.
Precedent	Only broad guidelines consistent with the policy indicated by the <ORG> in Section 354(3) can be laid down.
Precedent	Before we come to this aspect of the matter, it will be fair to notice briefly the decisions of the Supreme <ORG> of U.S.A. in <NAME> v. Georgia and companion cases.
Precedent	179.
Precedent	Soon after the decision in <NAME>-man, the Georgia <ORG> amended its statutory scheme.
Precedent	The amended statute retains the death penalty for six categories of crime: murder, kidnapping for ransom or where victim is harmed, armed robbery, rape, treason, and aircraft hijacking.
Precedent	The statutory aggravating circumstances, the existence of any of which may justify the imposition of the extreme penalty of death, as provided in that  statute, are:  (1).
Precedent	The offence of murder, rape, armed robbery, or kidnapping was committed by a person with a prior record of conviction for a capital felony, (or the offence of murder was committed by a person who has a substantial history of serious assaultive criminal convictions), (2).
Precedent	The offence of murder, rape armed robbery, or kidnapping was committed while the offender was engaged in the commission of another capital felony, or aggravated battery, or the offense of murder was committed while the offender was engaged in the commission of burglary or arson in the first degree, (3).
Precedent	The offender by his act of murder, armed robbery, or kidnapping knowingly created a great risk of death to more than one person in a public place by means of a weapon or device which would normally be hazardous to the lives of more than one person.
Precedent	(4).
Precedent	The offender committed the offence of murder for himself or another, for the purpose of receiving money or any other thing of monetary value.
Precedent	(6).
Precedent	The offender caused or  directed another to commit murder or committed murder as an agent or employee of another person.
Precedent	(7).
Precedent	The offence of murder, rape, armed robbery, or kidnapping was outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible or inhuman in that it involved torture, depravity of mind, or an aggravated battery to the victim.
Precedent	(8).
Precedent	The offence of murder was committed against any peace officer, corrections employee or fireman while engaged in the performance of his official duties.
Precedent	(9).
Precedent	The offence of murder was committed by a person in, or who has escaped from, the lawful confinement.
Precedent	(10).
Precedent	The murder was committed for the purpose of avoiding, interfering with, or preventing a lawful arrest or custody in a place of lawful confinement, of himself or another.
Precedent	180.
Precedent	<ORG> in <CITATION_284811> (1976) 236 Ga 534, 540, 224 SE 2d 386, 391 held unconstitutional the portion (within brackets) of the first circumstance encompassing persons who have a "substantial history of serious assaultive criminal convictions" but  did not set clear- and objective standards.
Precedent	181.
Precedent	The amended statute, also, provided for a bifurcated trial and a pre-sentence hearing.
Precedent	It also provides for an automatic appeal of death sentence to <ORG>, which may or may not affirm the death sentence.
Precedent	The appellate court is also required to include reference to similar, cases that the court considered.
Precedent	182.
Precedent	The defendant (accused) in that case was convicted of two counts of armed robbery and two counts of murder.
Precedent	The accused had committed the murders for the purpose of receiving money and an automobile of one of the victims.
Precedent	After reviewing the trial record, <ORG> affirmed the convictions and the imposition of death sentences for murder, only.
Precedent	The constitutional validity of the amended statutory scheme of Georgia was challenged before <ORG> on the ground that the imposition of the death penalty for the crime of murder under the Georgia statute violated the prohibition against the infliction o f cruel and unusual punishment under the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments.
Precedent	183.
Precedent	Likewise, in the companion case <NAME> v. Florida , <ORG> adopted new statutes that authorise the imposition of the death penalty on those convicted of first-degree murders.
Precedent	Under the new Florida statutes, if a defendant (accused) is found guilty of first-degree murder, a separate pre-sentence hearing is held before the jury where arguments may be presented and where any evidence deemed relevant to sentencing may be admitted and must include matters relating to eight aggravating and seven mitigating circumstances specified in the statutes, the jury is directed to weigh such circumstances and return an advisory verdict as to the sentence.
Precedent	The actual sentence is, however, determined by the trial judge, who is also directed to.
Precedent	weigh the statutory aggravating and mitigating circumstances.
Precedent	If a death sentence is imposed, the trial court must set forth in writing its fact findings that sufficient statutory aggravatin g circumstances exist and are not outweighed by statutory mitigating circumstances.
Precedent	Just as in the Georgia statute, a death sentence is to be automatically reviewed by <ORG>.
Precedent	Under this new statutory scheme, <ORG> found <NAME> (defendant) guilty of first-degree murder and sentenced him to death on the finding that these aggravating circumstances were established:  (1) The murder was premeditated and occurred in the course of a felony (burglary);  (2) the defendant had the propensity to commit murder;  (3) the murder was especially heinous, atrocious, and cruel; and (4) the defendant knowingly, through his intentional act, had created a great risk of serious bodily harm and death to many persons.
Precedent	The trial judge also found specifically that none of the statutory mitigating circumstances existed.
Precedent	<ORG> affirmed the death sentence.
Precedent	Before <ORG>, the constitutional validity of the imposition of death penalty for the crime of murder u nder the Florida statutes was challenged on the same ground as in <NAME> v. Georgia.
Precedent	<ORG> in both the aforesaid cases negatived the challenge to the statutes and upheld their validity.
Precedent	184.
Precedent	It may be recalled that in <NAME>, that <ORG> had held that if clear, definite and articulate standards channeling the sentencing discretion for imposition of the death penalty are not laid down in a statute, it would violate the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments.
Precedent	It may be noted that the aggravating circumstance No.
Precedent	(7) is couched in a very wide and elastic language.
Precedent	The expressions "outrageously or wantonly vile", "horrible or inhuman" employed therein are of the widest amplitude and give this aggravating circumstance the character of an omnibus clause.
Precedent	Likewise, in the Florida statute, the scope of the words "especially heinous, atrocious and cruel" was equally large and imprecise.
Precedent	185.
Precedent	It can be seriously questioned whether these extremely elastic standards really exclude the uncontrolled exercis e of sentencing discretion so as to meet the requirements of Furman.
Precedent	186.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. Georgia, the petitioner attacked the seventh statutory aggravating circumstance which authorises imposition of the death penalty if the murder was "outrageously, or wantonly vile, horrible or inhuman" on the ground that it was so broad that capital punishment could be imposed by its application in any murder case.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., speaking for himself and for <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., got over this attack, in three ways:  Firstly, by reading down the concerns expressed in Furman.
Precedent	In this connection, <NAME>, J. said, all that Furman mandates is that discretion in so grave a matter must be suitably directed "so as to minimize the risk of wholly arbitrary and capricious action".
Precedent	This was, if we may say so with respect, an admission of the fact that a considerable range of sentencing discretion has perforce to be left with the sentencing body to be exercised by it according to its own good sense and reason: and that no standards ho wsoever meticulously drafted can totally exclude scope for arbitrary and capricious action.
Precedent	The second reason given to parry this attack was of a general nature.
Precedent	It was observed:  As a general proposition these concerns (expressed in Furman) are best met by a system that provides for a bifurcated proceeding at which the sentencing authority is apprised of the information relevant to the imposition of sentence and provided with standards to guide its use of the information.
Precedent	The third course adopted to foil the attack was:  It is, of course, arguable that any murder involves depravity of mind or an aggravated battery.
Precedent	But this language need not be construed in this way, and there is no reason to assume that <ORG> will adopt such an open-ended construction.
Precedent	187.
Precedent	<NAME>, J. with whom the Chief Justice and <NAME>, J. joined, negatived the charge of these standards being vague and incomplete, with these observations:  The argument is considerably overstated.... <ORG> ha s plainly made an effort to guide the jury in the exercise of its discretion, while at the same time permitting the jury to dispense mercy on the basis of factors too intangible to write into a statute, and I cannot accept the naked assertion that the effort is bound to fail.
Precedent	As the types of murders for which the death penalty may be imposed became more narrowly defined and are limited to those which are particularly serious or for which the death penalty is particularly appropriate as they are in Georgia by reason of the aggravating circumstance requirement, it becomes reasonable to expect...that Georgia's current system would escape the infirmities which invalidated its previous system under <NAME>....
Precedent	Indeed, if <ORG> properly performs the task assigned to it under the Georgia statutes, death sentences...imposed wantonly or freakishly for any given category of crime will be set aside.
Precedent	188.
Precedent	Similarly, in <NAME> v. Florida, it was contended that the enumerated aggravating and mitigating  circumstances in the Florida statute are so vague and so broad that virtually "any capital defendant becomes a candidate for the death penalty".
Precedent	In particular, the petitioner attacked the eighth and third statutory aggravating circumstances which authorise the death penalty to be imposed if the crime is "especially heinous, atrocious, or cruel" or if "the defendant knowingly created a great risk of death to many persons  189.
Precedent	Agreeing with <ORG>, <ORG> recognised that "while it is arguable that all killings are atrocious, still we believe that the <ORG> intended something especially heinous, atrocious, or cruel" when it authorise the death penalty for first-degree murder.
Precedent	As a consequence, the <ORG> has indicated that the eighth statutory provision is directed only at "the conscienceless or pitiless crime which is unnecessarily tortuous to the victim".
Precedent	190.
Precedent	It appears to us that in <NAME> v. Georgia and the companion cases, <ORG> was obl iged to read down the requirements of <NAME> and to accept these broadly worded, loose-ended and not-all-inclusive "standards' because in the area of sentencing discretion, if it was to retain its judicial character, exhaustive standardisation or perfect regulation was neither feasible nor desirable.
Precedent	191.
Precedent	Moreover, over-standardisation of the sentencing process tends to defeat its very purpose, and may actually produce opposite results.
Precedent	192.
Precedent	<NAME> and <NAME> highlight this danger, by taking inter alia, the example of the guided-discretion capital punishment statutes favoured by <ORG> in <NAME> v. Georgia and its companion cases, as follows;  A defendant convicted of capital murder might wish to make the following speech to the jury about to consider whether capital punishment should be Imposed:  I am deeply sorry for my crime which I recognize was about as bad as any that can be imagined.
Precedent	I did, in fact, go to the police station shortly after the killing to surrender and make a full confessi on.
Precedent	Although I have done some terrible things in my life you may wish to know, before deciding whether I should live or die, that I have also done some good.
Precedent	I once risked my life in combat to save five comrades - an action for which I was awarded the Silver Star - and for the last 10 years I have personally cared for my invalid mother while supporting 5 younger brothers and sisters.
Precedent	The mitigating factors listed in today's capital punishment statutes are sometimes quite general, but none that I have seen in any statute would permit a jury to consider any of the circumstances mentioned in this defendant's speech (or, for that matter any other evidence of pre-crime remorse).
Precedent	Apparently the Florida statute upheld in <NAME> v. Florida would not; yet the <ORG> plurality, seemingly oblivious to the statutes, limitations declared in a companion case, 'A' jury must be allowed to consider on the basis of all relevant evidence not only why a death sentence should be imposed, but also why it should not be impo sed.
Precedent	(<NAME> v. Texas), (1976) 428 US 262, 271.
Precedent	193.
Precedent	Critically examined, it is clear that the decisions in <NAME> v. Georgia and Its companion cases demonstrate the truth of what we have said earlier, that it is neither practicable nor desirable to imprison the sentencing discretion of a judge or jury in the strait-jacket of exhaustive and rigid standards, Nevertheless, these decisions do show that it is not impossible to lay down broad guidelines as distinguished from ironcased standards, which will minimise the risk of arbitrary imposition of death penalty for murder and some other offences under the Penal Code .
Precedent	194.
Precedent	This takes us to the question of indicating the broad criteria which should guide the <ORG> in the matter of sentencing a person convicted of murder under Section 302 , Penal Code .
Precedent	Before we embark on this task, it will be proper to remind ourselves, again that "while we have an obligation to ensure that the constitutional bounds are not over-reached, we may not act as judges as we might as  legislatures.
Precedent	"[Per <NAME>.
Precedent	J. in <NAME> v. Georgia]  195.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>, this <ORG> had held that this sentencing discretion is to be exercised judicially on well-recognised principles, after balancing all the aggravating and mitigating circumstances of the crime.
RatioOfTheDecision	By "well-recognised principles" the <ORG> obviously meant the principles crystallised by judicial decisions illustrating as to what were regarded as aggravating or mitigating circumstances in those cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	The legislative changes since <NAME> - as we have discussed already - do not have the effect of abrogating or nullifying those principles.
Precedent	The only effect is that the application of those principles is now to be guided by the paramount beacons of legislative policy discernible from Sections 354(3) and 235(2) , namely: (1) The extreme penalty can be inflicted only in gravest cases of extreme culpability: (2) In making choice of the sentence, in addition to the circumstances of the offence, due regard must be paid to the circumstances of the offender  also.
Precedent	196.
Precedent	We will first notice some of the aggravating circumstances which.
Precedent	In the absence of any mitigating circumstances, have been regarded as an indication for imposition of the extreme penalty.
Precedent	197.
Precedent	Pre-planned, calculated, cold blooded murder has always been regarded as one of an aggravated kind.
Precedent	In Jagmohan, it was reiterated by this Court that if a murder is "diabolically conceived and cruelly executed", it would justify the imposition of the death penalty on the murderer.
Precedent	The same principle was substantially reiterated by <NAME>, J., speaking for the <ORG>, in Ediga Anamma, in these terms:  The weapons used and the manner of their use, the horrendous features of the crime and hapless, helpless state of the victim, and the like, steel the heart of the law for a sterner sentence.
Precedent	198.
Precedent	It may be noted that this indicator for imposing the death sentence was crystallised in that case after paying due regard to the shift in legislative policy embodied in Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1973, alt hough on the date of that decision (February 11, 1974), this provision had not come into force.
Precedent	In <NAME> case, also, to which a reference has been made earlier, it was emphatically stated that a person who in a fit of anti-social piety commits "bloodcurdling butchery" of his child, fully deserves to be punished with death.
Precedent	In <NAME>, however, the majority (of 2:1) has completely reversed the view that had been taken in Ediga Anamma regarding the application of Section 354(3) on this point.
Precedent	According to it, after the enactment of Section 354(3) , 'murder most foul' is not the test.
Precedent	The shocking nature of the crime or the number of murders committed is also not the criterion.
Precedent	It was said that the focus has now completely shifted from the crime to the criminal.
Precedent	"Special reasons" necessary for imposing death penalty "must relate not to the crime as such but to the criminal".
Precedent	199.
RatioOfTheDecision	With great respect, we find ourselves unable to agree to this enunciation.
RatioOfTheDecision	As we read Sections 354(3) and 235(2) and ot her related provisions of the Code of 1973, it is quite clear to us that for making the choice of punishment or for ascertaining the existence or absence of "special reasons" in that context, the <ORG> must pay due regard both to the crime and the criminal.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is the relative weight to be given to the aggravating and mitigating factors, depends on the facts and circumstances of the particular case.
RatioOfTheDecision	More often than not, these two aspects are so intertwined that it is difficult to give a separate treatment to each of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is so because 'style is the 'man'.
RatioOfTheDecision	In many cases, the extremely cruel or beastly manner of the commission of murder is itself a demonstrated index of the depraved character of the perpetrator.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is why, it is not desirable to consider the circumstances of the crime and the circumstances of the criminal in two separate water-tight compartments.
RatioOfTheDecision	In a sense, to kill is to be cruel and therefore all murders are cruel.
RatioOfTheDecision	But such cruelty may vary in its degree of culpability.
Precedent	And it is onl y when the culpability assumes the proportion of extreme depravity that "special reasons" can legitimately be said to exist.
Precedent	200.
Precedent	Drawing upon the penal statutes of the States in U.S.A. framed after <NAME> v, Georgia, in general, and Clauses 2(a), (b), (c), and (d) of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bill passed in 1978 by <ORG>, in particular, Dr. <NAME> has suggested these "aggravating circumstances":  Aggravating circumstances : A Court may, however, in the following cases impose the penalty of death in its discretion:  (a) if the murder has been committed after previous planning and involves extreme brutality; or  (b) if the murder involves exceptional depravity; or  (c) if.
Precedent	the murder is of a member of any of the armed forces of the <ORG> or of a member of any police force or of any public servant and was committed -  (i) while such member or public servant was on duty; or  (ii) in consequence of anything done or attempted to be done by such member or public servant in the lawful discharge o f his duty as such member or public servant whether at the time of murder he was such member or public servant, as the case may be, or had ceased to be such member or public servant; or  (d) if the murder is of a person who had acted in the lawful discharge of his duty under Section 43 of the CrPC, 1973, or who had rendered assistance to a Magistrate or a police officer demanding his aid or requiring his assistance under Section 37 and Section 129 of the said Code.
Precedent	201.
Precedent	<ORG>d broadly, there can be no objection to the acceptance of these indicators but as we have indicated already, we would prefer not to fetter judicial discretion by attempting to make an exhaustive enumeration one way or the other,  202.
Precedent	In <NAME>, the majority said: "It is constitutionally permissible to swing a criminal out of corporeal existence only if the security of <ORG> and society, public order and the interests of the general public compel that course as provided in Article 19(2) to (6)."
RatioOfTheDecision	Our objection is only to the word  "only".
RatioOfTheDecision	While it may be conceded that a murder which directly threatens, or has an extreme potentiality to harm or endanger the security of <ORG> and society, public order and the interests of the general public, may provide "special reasons" to justify the imposition of the extreme penalty on the person convicted of such a heinous murder, it is not possible to agree that imposition of death penalty on murderers who do not fall within this narrow category is constitutionally impermissible.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have discussed and held above that the impugned provisions in Section 302 , Penal Code , being reasonable and in the general public interest, do not offend Article 19 , or its 'ethos'; nor do they in any manner violate Articles 21 and 14.
RatioOfTheDecision	All the reasons given by us for upholding the validity of Section 302 , Penal Code , fully apply to the case of Section 354(3) , CrPC , also.
Precedent	The same criticism applies to the view taken in <CITATION_198117> , which follows the dictum in <NAME> (ibid).
Precedent	203.
Precedent	In several countri es which have retained death penalty, pre-planned murder for monetary gain, or by an assassin hired for monetary reward is, also, considered a capital offence of the first degree which, in the absence of any ameliorating circumstances, is punishable with death.
Precedent	Such rigid categorisation would dangerously overlap the domain of legislative policy.
Precedent	It may necessitate, as it were, a redefinition of 'murder' or its further classification.
Precedent	Then, in some decisions, murder by fire-arm, or an automatic projectile or bomb, or like weapon, the use of which creates a high simultaneous risk of death or injury to more than one person, has also been treated as an aggravated type of offence.
Precedent	No exhaustive enumeration of aggravating circumstances is possible.
Precedent	But this much can be said that in order to qualify for inclusion in the category of "aggravating circumstances" which may form the basis of 'special reasons' in Section 354(3) , circumstance found on the facts of a particular case, must evidence aggravation of an abnorma l or special degree.
Precedent	204.
Precedent	Dr. <NAME> has suggested these mitigating factors:  Mitigating circumstances:- In the exercise of its discretion in the above cases, the <ORG> shall take into account the following circumstances:  (1) That the offence was committed under the influence of extreme mental or emotional disturbance.
Precedent	(2) The age of the accused.
Precedent	It the accused is young or old, he shall not be sentenced to death.
Precedent	(3) The probability that the accused would not commit criminal acts of violence as would constitute a continuing threat to society.
Precedent	(4) The probability that the accused can be reformed and rehabilitated.
Precedent	The <ORG> shall by evidence prove that the accused does not satisfy the conditions 3 and 4 above.
Precedent	(5) That in the facts and circumstances of the case the accused believed that he was morally justified in committing the offence.
Precedent	(6) That the accused acted under the duress or domination of another person.
Precedent	(7) That the condition of the accused showed that he was mentally defective and that the  said defect unpaired his capacity to appreciate the criminality of his conduct.
Precedent	205.
Precedent	We will do no more than to say that these are undoubtedly relevant circumstances and must be given great weight in the determination of sentence.
Precedent	Some of these factors like extreme youth can instead be of compelling importance.
Precedent	In several States of India, there are in force special enactments, according to which a 'child' that is, 'a person who at the date of murder was less than 16 years of age', cannot be tried, convicted and sentenced to death or imprisonment for life for murder, nor dealt with according to the same criminal procedure as an adult.
Precedent	The special Acts provide for a reformatory procedure for such juvenile offenders or children.
Precedent	206.
Precedent	According to some Indian decisions, the post-murder remorse, penitence or renentence by the murderer is not a factor which may induce the <ORG> to pass the lesser penalty (e. g. <NAME>), .
Precedent	But those decisions can no longer be held to be good law in view of the current  penological trends and the sentencing policy outlined in Sections 235(2) and 354(3) .
Precedent	We have already extracted the views of <NAME> and <NAME> (ibid), which are in point.
Precedent	(Contd.
Precedent	on last page of <ORG> only for purpose of giving complete judgment In June Monthly Part).
Precedent	207.
Precedent	There are numerous other circumstances justifying the passing of the lighter sentence; as there are countervailing circumstances of aggravation.
Precedent	"We cannot obviously feed into a judicial computer all such situations since they are astrological imponderables in an imperfect and undulating society."
Precedent	Nonetheless, it cannot be over-emphasised that the scope and concept of mitigating factors in the area of death penalty must receive a liberal and expansive construction by the courts in accord with the sentencing policy writ large in Section 354(3) .
Precedent	Judges should never be bloodthirsty.
Precedent	Hanging of murderers has never been too good for them.
Precedent	Facts and figures albeit incomplete, furnished by <ORG>, show that in th e past Courts have inflicted the extreme penalty with extreme infrequency - a fact which attests to the caution and compassion which they have always brought to bear on the exercise of their sentencing discretion in so grave a matter.
Precedent	It is, therefore, imperative to voice the concern that courts, aided by the broad illustrative guidelines indicated by us, will discharge the onerous function with evermore scrupulous care and humane concern, directed along the highroad of legislative policy outlined in Section 354(3) , viz., that for persons convicted of murder, life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence an exception.
Precedent	A real and abiding concern for the dignity of human life postulates resistance to taking a life through law's instrumentality.
Precedent	That ought not to be done save in the rarest of rare cases when the alternative option is unquestionably foreclosed.
Precedent	208.
Precedent	For all the foregoing reasons, we reject the challenge to the constitutionality of the impugned provisions contained in Sections 302 Penal Code  and 354(3) of the CrPC , 1973.
Precedent	209.
Precedent	The writ petitions and the connected petitions can now be heard and disposed of, on their individual merits, in the light of the- broad guidelines and principles enunciated in this judgment.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	(Minority view)  210.
Precedent	I have had the advantage of reading the careful judgment prepared by my learned brother <NAME>.
Precedent	but I find myself unable to agree with the conclusions reached by him.
Precedent	I am of the (view that Section 302 of the Indian |Penal Code in so far as it provides for imposition of death penalty as an alternative to life sentence is ultra vires and void as being violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution since it does not provide any legislative guidelines as to when life should be permitted to be extinguished by imposition of death sentence.
Precedent	211.
Precedent	I would therefore strike down Section 302 as unconstitutional and void in so far as it provides for imposition of death penalty as an alternative to imprisonment for life.
Precedent	I shall give my reasons for this v iew on the day on which the <ORG> reopens after the summer vacation.
Precedent	ORDER  212.
Precedent	In accordance with the majority opinion the challenge to the constitutionality of Section 302 of the Penal Code in so far as it provides for the death sentence as also the challenge to the constitutionality of Section 354(3) of the CrPC, 1973 fails and is rejected.
Precedent	213.
RulingByPresentCourt	The Writ Petitions and other connected matters may now be placed for hearing, in the usual course, before <ORG> for consideration of the individual cases on merits, in the light of the principles enunciated in the majority judgment.
