Fact	CASE NO.
Fact	: Appeal (crl.)
Fact	775 of 2005 PETITIONER: <NAME> RESPONDENT: State of Kerala DATE OF JUDGMENT: 21/06/2007 BENCH: Dr. <NAME> & <NAME> JUDGMENT:  J U D G M E N T Dr. <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	Challenge in this appeal is to the order passed by the learned Single Judge of <ORG>.
Fact	By the impugned order the appellant was found guilty of the offence punishable under Section 304 Part II of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short ' IPC ').
Fact	Learned Sessions Judge, <NAME>, had convicted the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 304 Part II .
Fact	<ORG> found the same to be in order.
Fact	Custodial sentence of five years was confirmed.
Fact	2.
Fact	The background facts in a nutshell are as follows:  A boy aged 10 years residing in a hostel of <ORG>, while he was a student of 4th standard in a nearby school, was run over by a bus driven by the appellant in the middle of the road.
Fact	The investigation by the police revealed that there was evidence to the effect tha t even the passengers in the bus were alarmed of the enormous speed in which it was being driven and had cautioned the driver to stop even crying, as they had seen the school children crossing the road in a queue.
Fact	The investigation also revealed that even the children crossing the road had raised both hands for stopping the vehicle.
Fact	The passengers and pedestrians were of the view that the bus was being driven at a high speed and that they had cried aloud to stop the bus.
Fact	It was, in spite of all these, that the bus ran over the said student on his head and the bus could be stopped only 15 to 20 feet ahead of the spot of occurrence.
Fact	In the light of the said evidence, the investigating officer felt that there was real intention on the part of the appellant/driver of the bus to cause death of persons to whom harm may be caused by reason of hitting the bus and he was charged with offence punishable under Section 302 .
Fact	The court below found that no intention had been proved in the case.
Fact	But, at the same time, the a ccused acted with the knowledge that it was likely to cause death.
Fact	So, the act committed by the appellant was culpable homicide not amounting to murder punishable under Section 304 Part II .
Fact	Convicting him for the said offence, he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for five years and to pay a fine of Rs.15,000/- with a default sentence of imprisonment for three years.
Fact	This was assailed in appeal.
Fact	3.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> did not find any substance in the plea of the appellant that the accused had not caused death either with the intention of causing death or with the intention to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or with the knowledge that he is likely to cause such act to cause the death.
RulingByLowerCourt	It was submitted that case is covered under Section 304A .
RulingByLowerCourt	Same was not accepted.
RulingByLowerCourt	So, it was held that this is a case of culpable homicide.
RulingByLowerCourt	It accepted the stand of the respondent-State that conviction is to be made for culpable homicide.
RulingByLowerCourt	4.
Fact	The respective stand taken before <ORG> was re-  iterated in this appeal.
Fact	5.
Fact	Section 304A speaks of causing death by negligence.
RatioOfTheDecision	This section applies to rash and negligence acts and does not apply to cases where death has been voluntarily caused.
RatioOfTheDecision	This section obviously does not apply to cases where there is an intention to cause death or knowledge that the act will in all probability cause death.
RatioOfTheDecision	It only applies to cases in which without any such intention or knowledge death is caused by what is described as a rash and negligent act.
RatioOfTheDecision	A negligent act is an act done without doing something which a reasonable man guided upon those considerations which ordinarily regulate the conduct of human affairs would do or act which a prudent or reasonable man would not do in the circumstances attending it.
RatioOfTheDecision	A rash act is a negligent act done precipitately.
Precedent	Negligence is the genes, of which rashness is the species.
Precedent	It has sometimes been observed that in rashness the action is done precipitately that the mischievous or illegal consequences may fall, but with a hope that th ey will not.
Precedent	Lord <NAME> in <NAME> v. <ORG> (1937) AC 576 at p.583 = 2 All E.R.
Precedent	552) observed as under:  "Simple lack of care such as will constitute civil liability is not enough.
Precedent	For purposes of the criminal law there are degrees of negligence; and a very high degree of negligence is required to be proved before the felony is established.
Precedent	Probably of all the epithets that can be applied 'recklessness' most nearly covers the case.
Precedent	It is difficult to visualize a case of death caused by reckless driving in the connotation of that term in ordinary speech which would not justify a conviction for manslaughter; but it is probably not all embracing, for 'recklessness' suggests an indifference to risk whereas the accused may have appreciated the risk and intended to avoid it, and yet shown in the means adopted to avoid the risk such a high degree of negligence as would justify a conviction."
Precedent	6.
Precedent	Section 304-A applies to cases where there is no intention to cause death and no knowledge that  the act done in all probability will cause death.
Precedent	The provision is directed at offences outside the range of Sections 299 and 300 .
Precedent	The provision applies only to such acts which are rash and negligent and are directly cause of death of another person.
RatioOfTheDecision	Negligence and rashness are essential elements under Section 304-A .
RatioOfTheDecision	Culpable negligence lies in the failure to exercise reasonable and proper care and the extent of its reasonableness will always depend upon the circumstances of each case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rashness means doing an act with the consciousness of a risk that evil consequences will follow but with the hope that it will not.
RatioOfTheDecision	Negligence is a breach of duty imposed by law.
Precedent	In criminal cases, the amount and degree of negligence are determining factors.
Precedent	A question whether the accused's conduct amounted to culpable rashness or negligence depends directly on the question as to what is the amount of care and circumspection which a prudent and reasonable man would consider to be sufficient considering all the circumstances o f the case.
Precedent	Criminal rashness means hazarding a dangerous or wanton act with the knowledge that it is dangerous or wanton and the further knowledge that it may cause injury but done without any intention to cause injury or knowledge that it would probably be caused.
Precedent	7.
Precedent	As noted above, "Rashness" consists in hazarding a dangerous or wanton act with the knowledge that it is so, and that it may cause injury.
Precedent	The criminality lies in such a case in running the risk of doing such an act with recklessness or indifference as to the consequences.
Precedent	Criminal negligence on the other hand, is the gross and culpable neglect or failure to exercise that reasonable and proper care and precaution to guard against injury either to the public generally or to an individual in particular, which, having regard to all the circumstances out of which the charge has arisen it was the imperative duty of the accused person to have adopted.
Precedent	8.
Precedent	The distinction has been very aptly pointed out by <NAME> in these words:  ''Culpable rash ness is acting with the consciousness that the mischievous and illegal consequences may follow, but with the hope that they will not, and often with the belief that the actor has taken sufficient precautions to prevent their happening.
Precedent	The imputability arises from acting despite the consciousness.
Precedent	Culpable negligence is acting without the consciousness that the illegal and mischievous effect will follow, but In circumstances which show that the actor has not exercised the caution incumbent upon him and that if he had, he would have had the consciousness.
Precedent	The imputability arises from the negligence of the civic duty of circumspection."
Precedent	(See In re: Nidamorti Nagabhusanam 7 Mad.
Precedent	H.C.R.
Precedent	119)  9.
Precedent	Vehicular accidents resulting in deaths and injuries are spiraling.
Precedent	10.
Precedent	The Editorial under the heading "Road Traffic Injuries & fatalities in India  a modern epidemic" in <ORG>, January 2006 contains some interesting observations.
Fact	The relevant portions read as follows:  "<ORG> embly adopted a resolution on road safety on October 26, 2005 which invites Member States to implement the recommendations of the World Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention; to participate in the first United Nations Global Road Safety Week; and to recognize the third Sunday in November of every year as the World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims'.
Fact	This resolution follows the publication of The World Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention by <ORG> in 2004.
Fact	This report highlights the fact that all over the world working age people are more likely to suffer hospitalization, permanent disability and death due to road traffic injuries than most other diseases.
Fact	The situation in India is not very different.
Fact	About 82,000 persons were killed on Indian roads in 2002.
Fact	Official statistics regarding serious injuries are not reliable as they underestimate the actual number, but it is estimated that the number of people hospitalized may be 15-20 times the number killed.
Fact	In a do-noth ing scenario, it is possible that India will have 1,20,000 - 1,30,000 road traffic fatalities in the year 2008 and possibly 1,50,000 - 1,75,000 in 2015.
Fact	Our vision should aim at reducing the fatalities to less than 1,00,000 in the short term (2008) and less than 70,000 in the long term (2015).
Fact	xxx xxx xxx Safety measures for the near future xxx xxx xxx Motor vehicle occupants: (i) Enforcement of seatbelt use laws countrywide; (ii) restricting travel in front seat of cars by children has the potential of reducing injuries dramatically; and (iii) bus and truck occupant injuries, fatalities, and injuries caused to other road users can be reduced significantly by enforcing strict observance of speed limit regulations on highways.
Fact	Ensuring that bus timetables and truck movement schedules make it possible for drivers to observe speed limits with ease.
Fact	Random speed checking on highways would help ensure such measures.
Fact	xxx xxx xxx Road safety strategies - Long term Traffic calming and speed control: (i) Aim at imple menting speed control and traffic calming measures in all urban areas and at appropriate locations on rural highways by altering road design, vehicle monitoring through intelligent transport systems, and vehicle design by the year 2015.
Fact	This measure is likely to give us the maximum savings in terms of lives and serious injuries; and (ii) segregated lanes for vulnerable road users and buses in urban areas.
Fact	Non-motorized transport and buses must be provided segregated lanes on all major arterial roads in urban areas.
Fact	India specific designs need to be developed and phase wise implementation plans drawn up for all cities.
Fact	xxx xxx xxx Vehicle safely: (i) All vehicles sold in India should meet international crashworthiness standards by 2010; (ii) all buses and trucks should meet pedestrian impact standards by 2010; (iii) all urban buses to have low floors and automatic closing doors; (iv) crashworthiness standards must be developed for all indigenous vehicles by 2010 and implemented by 2012; (v) installation of In telligent Transport Systems (ITS) and other modern safety devices for assisting and controlling drivers; and (vi) driving under the influence of alcohol and other drugs.
Fact	A long term strategy to reduce drinking and driving incidence to less than 10 per cent of all crashes needs to be drawn up for the next 10 yr. Sensitization of the public to the extent of the problem.
Fact	Institution of random roadblocks and checking on urban roads and rural highways.
Fact	Ignition interlock on cars."
Fact	11.
Fact	In "Global Road Safety" certain revealing data have also been provided.
Fact	They read as follows:-  "THE COMING PLAGUE OF ROAD TRAFFIC INJURIES: A PREVENTABLE BURDEN FOR RICH AND POOR COUNTRIES".
Fact	12.
Fact	Almost 1.2 million people are killed each year and 20-50 million are injured or disabled, most people are unaware that road traffic injuries are a leading cause of death and disability.
Fact	13.
Fact	In developing countries, death rates from vehicle crashes are rising, and disproportionately high in relation to the number of crashes.
Fact	According to a  report published in 2000  Developing and transitional countries cumulatively represent over 85 percent of all road traffic deaths  Kenya has nearly 2,000 fatalities per 10,000 crashes.
Fact	Vietnam has over 3,000 fatalities per 10,000 crashes.
Fact	 44% of all road traffic deaths occur in the Asia/Pacific area, which only has 16 % of the total number of motor vehicles.
Fact	 At 71,495 and 59,927 total deaths, China and India, respectively, had the highest number of road fatalities in the world in 1995.-   Pedestrian deaths represent 62 % of all traffic fatalities in Lebanon.
Fact	In most developing countries vulnerable road users, including pedestrians, bicycle and motor cycle riders, account for the majority of all fatalities.
Fact	 Eastern European countries represent 6% of motor vehicles, but 11% of crash fatalities worldwide.
Fact	 The Latin America/Caribbean region has the second highest crash costs behind Asia.
Fact	14.
Fact	As vehicle use in developing countries are increasing, road traffic injuries are expected to become the third  leading cause of death and disability worldwide by 2020.
Fact	In developing countries, each vehicle is much more lethal than the vehicles in developed countries, because it most frequently takes the lives not of vehicle occupants, but of vulnerable road users: pedestrians, cyclists.
Fact	Many developing countries are increasing the rate of motorized vehicle use at up to 18% per year.
Fact	In India, for example, there has been a 23% increase in the number of vehicles from 1990-1999 and a 60-fold increase is predicted by 2050.
Fact	15.
Fact	The human toll in such accidents is tragic.
Fact	Survivors and family members are affected not only by an immediate death or disability, but also lifetime psychological and physical suffering.
Fact	Crashes often result in orphans, and some victims, as young as infants, spend the rest of their lives with medical facilities.
Fact	ECONOMIC IMPACT  16.
Fact	In addition to the devastating human toll, the economic impact of road crashes is also enormous.
Fact	Many of those injured or killed are wage earners, leaving families d estitute and without means of support.
Fact	Loss of wages, property damage, and other factors affected by road traffic crashes represented 4.6% of the gross national product of the United States in 1994.
Fact	In developing countries, road traffic crashes represent 3-5% of the GNP.
Fact	'The estimated annual cost of road traffic crashes in developing countries exceeds $100 billion (US).
Fact	This amounts to nearly double the total combined development assistance these countries receive every year from bilateral and multi-lateral government organizations.
Fact	Globally, the estimated annual costs of road crashes are 500 billion (US).
Fact	THIS PROBLEM IS PREVENTABLE  17.
Fact	We have the tools needed to combat this epidemic.
Fact	In the developed nations, proven methods such as enforcement of laws regarding driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, reducing speed limits, and requiring seat belts and restraints have shown significant reduction in traffic fatalities.
Fact	Road design and road environment, vehicle design, and road safety standards ar e also strategies that successfully address traffic safety.
Fact	For maximum impact of RTI's, a systems approach with multiple, scientifically proven prevention techniques must be employed.
Fact	Education alone has been shown to be less effective, and often ineffective.
Fact	18.
Fact	Proven interventions for developed countries require research, modification, and testing for developing countries.
Fact	For example, developing countries face poorly designed and maintained roadways, unsafe vehicles, drivers under the influence of drugs or alcohol, lack of national policies, and inadequate enforcement.
Fact	Success will require significant new resources supported by sustained political commitment.
Fact	19.
Fact	When the factual scenario of the present case is analysed, it is crystal clear that the appropriate conviction would be under Section 304 A  and not Section 304 Part II .
RulingByLowerCourt	Conviction is accordingly altered.
RulingByLowerCourt	The maximum sentence which can be imposed for offence punishable under Section 304A is two years with fine or with both.
RulingByLowerCourt	The custodial sent ence, therefore, is reduced to the maximum i.e.
RulingByLowerCourt	two years.
Argument	20.
Argument	It is contended by the learned counsel for the <ORG> that in a case of this nature two years sentence is grossly inadequate.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is substance in this submission considering the increasing number of vehicular accidents resulting in death of large number of innocent persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is for the legislature to provide for an appropriate sentence.
Precedent	But the statute presently provides for a maximum sentence of two years.
Precedent	21.
RulingByPresentCourt	The appeal is allowed to the aforesaid extent.
