Argument	REPORTABLE IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION PETITION FOR SPECIAL LEAVE TO APPEAL (CIVIL) NO.
Argument	28034/2011 (Arising out of CC 9038/2010) State of Haryana ...Petitioner Versus <NAME> & Ors.
Argument	...Respondents J U D G M E N T  <NAME>, J.
Argument	1.
Fact	People are often astonished to learn that a trespasser may take the title of a building or land from the true owner in certain conditions and such theft is even authorized by law.
Fact	2.
Fact	The theory of adverse possession is also perceived by the general public as a dishonest way to obtain title to property.
Fact	Property right advocates argue that mistakes by landowners or negligence on their part should never transfer their property rights to a wrongdoer, who never paid valuable consideration for such an interest.
Fact	3.
Fact	The government itself may acquire land by adverse possession.
Fact	Fairness dictates and commands that if the government can acquire title to private land through adverse possession, it should be able to lose title under the same circumst ances.
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have heard the learned counsel for the <ORG> of Haryana.
RatioOfTheDecision	We do not deem it appropriate to financially burden the respondents by issuing notice in this Special Leave Petition.
RatioOfTheDecision	A very vital question which arises for consideration in this petition is whether the <ORG>, which is in charge of protection of life, liberty and property of the people can be permitted to grab the land and property of its own citizens under the banner of the plea of adverse possession?
RatioOfTheDecision	5.
Precedent	Brief facts, relevant to dispose of this Special Leave Petition are recapitulated as under:  6.
Precedent	The <ORG> of Haryana had filed a Civil Suit through <ORG>, Gurgaon, seeking a relief of declaration to the effect that it has acquired the rights of ownership by way of adverse possession over land measuring 8 biswas comprising khewat no.
Precedent	34, khata no.
Precedent	56, khasra no.
Precedent	3673/452 situated in the revenue estate of Hidayatpur Chhavni, Haryana.
Fact	7.
Fact	The other prayer in the suit was that the sale deed dated 26th March, 1990, mut ation no.
Fact	3690 dated 22nd November, 1990 as well as judgment and decree dated 19th May, 1992, passed in Civil Suit No.
Fact	368 dated 9 th March, 1991 are liable to be set aside.
Fact	As a consequential relief, it was also prayed that the defendants be perpetually restrained from interfering with the peaceful possession of the plaintiff (petitioner herein) over the suit land.
Fact	For the sake of convenience we are referring the petitioner as the plaintiff and the respondents as defendants.
Fact	8.
Fact	In the written statement, the defendants raised a number of preliminary objections pertaining to estoppel, cause of action and mis-joinder of necessary parties.
Fact	It was specifically denied that the plaintiff ever remained in possession of the suit property for the last 55 years.
Fact	It was submitted that the disputed property was still lying vacant.
Fact	However, the plaintiff recently occupied it by using force and thereafter have also raised a boundary wall of police line.
Fact	It was denied in the written statement that the plaintiff acquired r ight of ownership by way of adverse possession qua property in question.
Fact	The defendants prayed for dismissal of suit and by way of a counter claim also prayed for a decree for possession qua suit property be passed.
Fact	9.
Fact	<ORG> framed the following Issues in the suit.
Fact	1.
Fact	Whether plaintiffs have become owner of disputed property by way of adverse possession?
Fact	OPP  2.
Fact	Whether sale deed 26.3.1990 and mutation no.
Fact	3690 dated 22.11.90 are null and void as alleged?
Fact	OPP  3.
Fact	Whether judgment and decree dated 19.05.92 passed in civil suit no.
Fact	368 dated 9.3.91 is liable to be set aside alleged?
Fact	OPP  4.
Fact	Whether the suit of the plaintiff is not maintainable in the present form?
Fact	OPP  5.
Fact	Whether the plaintiff has no locus-standi to file the present suit?
Fact	OPP  6.
Fact	Whether the plaintiff has no cause of action to file the present suit?
Fact	OPP  7.
Fact	Whether the suit of the plaintiff is bad for mis-  joinder of necessary parties?
Fact	OPP  8.
Fact	Whether defendants no.
Fact	1 to 4 are rightful owners of disputed property on the basis of  impugned sale deed dated 23.6.1990 registered on 3.7.1990?
Fact	OPP   9.
Fact	Whether defendants are entitled for possession of disputed property?
Precedent	OPP  10.
Precedent	Relief.
Precedent	10.
Argument	Issue No.
Argument	1 which relates to adverse possession and issue No.
Argument	4 pertaining to maintainability were decided together.
Argument	According to <ORG>, the plaintiff has failed to prove the possession over the disputed property because the plaintiff could not produce any documentary evidence to prove this.
Argument	On the contrary, revenue records placed on the file shows that the defendants are the owners in possession of disputed property.
Argument	<ORG> observed that possession of <ORG>, as claimed in the plaint for a continuous period of 55 years, stood falsified by the documents issued by the officials of the <ORG>.
Argument	11.
Argument	<ORG> also observed that despite claiming adverse possession, there was no pleading qua denial of title of the defendants by the plaintiff, so much so that the specific day when the alleged possession of <ORG> allegedly became adverse  against the defendants has not been mentioned in order to establish the starting point of limitation could be ascertained.
Argument	6  12.
Precedent	<ORG> relied on the judgment of this Court in <CITATION_675387> .
Precedent	<NAME> AIR 1964 SC 1254 wherein this Court has laid down that the adverse possession must be adequate in continuity, in publicity and extent and a plea is required at the least to show when possession becomes adverse.
Precedent	The Court also held that long possession is not necessarily adverse possession.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	<ORG> also relied on a decision of <ORG> and Haryana in the case of <CITATION_174813> ., AIR 2006 P and H 195, wherein it was stated that no declaration can be sought by a plaintiff with regard to the ownership on the basis of adverse possession.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	<ORG> came to specific conclusion that despite the fact that the possession of the plaintiff over the disputed land is admitted on behalf of defendants, Issue No.
Precedent	1 stand decided against the plaintiff.
Precedent	It was held tha t the suit of the plaintiff claiming ownership by way of adverse possession is not maintainable.
Precedent	Consequently, Issue No.
Precedent	1 was decided against the plaintiff and Trial No.
Precedent	4 was decided in favour of the defendants.
Precedent	7  15.
Precedent	<ORG> decided Issue Nos.
Precedent	2, 3, 5 and 6 together and came to the definite conclusion that the plaintiff failed to prove its possession over the property in question.
Argument	It was also held that the plaintiff had no locus standi to challenge the validity of the impugned sale deed, mutation as well as the judgment and decree because the plaintiff was neither the owner nor in possession of the property in dispute.
Argument	Consequently, the plaintiff had no right to say that the impugned sale deed dated 26th March, 1990 was a sham transaction and the suit of mutation dated 22nd November, 1990 and, thereafter, the judgment and decree dated 19th May, 1992 passed in Civil Suit No.
RatioOfTheDecision	386 dated 9th March, 1991 are liable to be set aside.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
Fact	<ORG> came to the conclusion that the plaintiff having  no right or title in the suit property has neither locus standi nor cause of action to file the present suit.
Fact	Issue Nos.
Fact	2 and 3 were decided against the plaintiff, whereas, Issue Nos.
Fact	5 and 6 were decided in favour of the defendants.
Precedent	17.
Precedent	Regarding Issue Nos.
Precedent	8 and 9, <ORG> observed that once it is held that defendant Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	1 to 4 are owners of the disputed property, which is presently in possession of the plaintiff without any right, they (defendants) are entitled to its possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence, Issue Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	8 and 9 were also decided in favour of the defendants.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
Argument	Issue No.
Argument	7 was not pressed and decided against the defendants.
Argument	19.
Argument	Regarding Issue No.
Argument	10 (relief) <ORG> observed as under:  "As a sequel to the findings of this court on the issues mentioned above, the suit of the plaintiff stands dismissed, however, counter claim filed by defendants is decreed with costs to the effect that they are entitled to possession of land measuring 8 biswas comprising of khewat no.
Precedent	34 khata no.
Precedent	56 khasa no .
Precedent	3673/452 situated in revenue estate of Hidayatpur Chhavni village now the part of known as Patel Nagar, Gurgaon.
Precedent	Decree sheet be drawn accordingly.
Precedent	File be consigned to the record room after due compliance."
Precedent	20.
Precedent	The plaintiff, aggrieved by the judgment of <ORG> filed an appeal (Civil Appeal No.
Precedent	33) before the learned Additional District Judge, Gurgaon.
Precedent	Learned Additional District Judge while deciding the appeal, relied on the judgment of <ORG> delivered in the case of <ORG> and Another v.  <NAME> 1991 PLJ 425, wherein it was observed that it does not behove the Government to take the plea of adverse possession against the citizens.
Precedent	21.
Precedent	Learned Additional District Judge also relied on other judgments of Punjab & <ORG> in the cases of <ORG> (supra) and <NAME> & Ors.
Precedent	v.  <NAME> & Ors.
Precedent	(2007) 146 PLR 498 wherein it was held that a person in adverse possession of immovable property cannot file a suit for declaratio n claiming ownership and such a suit was not maintainable.
Precedent	22.
Argument	Before parting with the judgment the learned Additional District Judge observed regarding conduct of the plaintiff that the present suit was filed by State of Haryana by the then Superintendent of Police, Gurgaon on 11th May, 1996.
Argument	It was also observed by the learned Additional District Judge that the Police department is for the protection of the people and property of the citizens and the police department had unnecessarily dragged the defendants in unnecessary litigation.
Argument	The appeal was dismissed with exemplary cost of Rs.25,000/-.
Argument	1  23.
Argument	Unfortunately, despite serious strictures passed by the Court, the State of Haryana did not learn a lesson and preferred a Second Appeal (RSA No.
Argument	3909 of 2008) before <ORG> against the judgments and decrees of the two courts below.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	<ORG>, relying on the earlier judgments, observed that the welfare State which was responsible for the protection of life  and property of its citizens, was in the present case, itself trying to grab the land/property of the defendants under the garb of plea of adverse possession and hence the action of the plaintiff is deplorable and disgraceful.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	Unfortunately, the <ORG> of Haryana, is still not satisfied with the three strong judgments by three different forums given against the <ORG> and is still quite anxious and keen to grab the property of the defendants in a clandestine manner on the plea of adverse possession.
Precedent	26.
Precedent	In a democracy, governed by rule of law, the task of protecting life and property of the citizens is entrusted to the police department of the government.
Precedent	In the instant case, the suit has been filed through <ORG>, Gurgaon, seeking right of ownership by adverse possession.
Precedent	27.
Fact	The revenue records of the <ORG> revealed that the disputed property stood in the name of the defendants.
Fact	It is unfortunate that <ORG>, a senior official of <ORG>, ma de repeated attempts to grab the property of the true owner by filing repeated appeals before different forums claiming right of ownership by way of adverse possession.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	The citizens may lose faith in the entire police administration of the country that those responsible for the safety and security of their life and property are on a spree of grabing the properties from the true owners in a clandestine manner.
Precedent	29.
Fact	A very informative and erudite Article was published in <ORG> Spring 2007 with the title `Making Sense Out of Nonsense: A Response to Adverse Possession by Governmental Entities'.
Fact	The Article was written by <NAME>.
Fact	Historical background of adverse possession was discussed in that article.
Precedent	1  Historical background  30.
Precedent	The concept of adverse possession was born in England around 1275 and was initially created to allow a person to claim right of "seisin" from his ancestry.
Precedent	Many felt that the original law that relied on "seisin"  was difficult to establish, and around 1623 a  statue of limitations was put into place that allowed for a person in possession of property for twenty years or more to acquire title to that property.
Precedent	This early English doctrine was designed to prevent legal disputes over property rights that were time consuming and costly.
Precedent	The doctrine was also created to prevent the waste of land by forcing owners to monitor their property or suffer the consequence of losing title.
Precedent	31.
Precedent	The concept of adverse possession was subsequently adopted in the United States.
Fact	The doctrine was especially important in early American periods to cure the growing number of title disputes.
Fact	The American version mirrored the English law, which is illustrated by most States adopting a twenty-year statue of limitations for adverse possession claims.
Fact	As America has developed to the present date, property rights have become increasingly more important and land has become limited.
Fact	As a result, the time period to acquire land by adverse possession has been reduced in some States to as little  as five years, while in others, it has remained as long as forty years.
Fact	The United States has also changed the traditional doctrine by preventing the use of adverse possession against property held by a governmental entity.
Precedent	32.
Fact	During the colonial period, prior to the enactment of the Bill of Rights, property was frequently taken by states from private land owners without compensation.
Fact	Initially, undeveloped tracts of land were the most common type of property acquired by the government, as they were sought for the installation of public road.
Fact	Under the colonial system it was thought that benefits from the road would, in a newly opened country, always exceed the value of unimproved land.
RatioOfTheDecision	1  33.
RatioOfTheDecision	The doctrine of adverse possession arose in an era where lands were vast particularly in the United States of America and documentation sparse in order to give quietus to the title of the possessor and prevent fanciful claims from erupting.
RatioOfTheDecision	The concept of adverse possession exits to cure potential or actual defects  in real estate titles by putting a statute of limitation on possible litigation over ownership and possession.
Fact	A landowner could be secure in title to his land; otherwise, long-lost heirs of any former owner, possessor or lien holder of centuries past could come forward with a legal claim on the property.
Fact	Since independence of our country we have witnessed registered documents of title and more proper, if not perfect, entries of title in the government records.
Fact	The situation having changed, the statute calls for a change.
Precedent	34.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_702009>  (one of us <NAME>, J.
RatioOfTheDecision	), this Court had an occasion to examine the English and American law on "adverse possession".
RatioOfTheDecision	The relevant paras of that judgment (Paras 24 and 26 to 29) are reproduced as under:  1  "24.
RatioOfTheDecision	In a relatively recent case in P.T.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_663164> , this Court again had an occasion to deal with the concept of adverse possession in detail.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Court also examined the legal position in various countries particularly in English and American systems.
RatioOfTheDecision	W e deem it appropriate to reproduce relevant passages in extenso.
Precedent	The <ORG> dealing with adverse possession in paras 5 and 6 observed as under: (SCC pp.
Precedent	66-67) "5.
Precedent	Adverse possession in one sense is based on the theory or presumption that the owner has abandoned the property to the adverse possessor on the acquiescence of the owner to the hostile acts and claims of the person in possession.
Precedent	It follows that sound qualities of a typical adverse possession lie in it being open, continuous and hostile.
Precedent	(See <NAME> v. <NAME> 100 So 2d 57 (Fla 1958), <ORG> v. City of Little Rock 227, Ark 1085 : 303 SW 2d 569 (1957); <NAME> v. <NAME> 207 NY 240 : 100 NE 742 (1913); <ORG> v.  <NAME> 39 Wyo 494 : 273 P 908 : 97 ALR 1 (1929).)
Precedent	6.
Precedent	Efficacy of adverse possession law in most jurisdictions depends on strong limitation statutes by operation of which right to access the court expires through efflux of time.
Precedent	As against rights of the paper-owner, in the context of adverse possession, th ere evolves a set of competing rights in favour of the adverse possessor who has, for a long period of time, cared for the land, developed it, as against the owner of the property who has ignored the property.
Precedent	Modern statutes of limitation operate, as a rule, not only to cut off one's right to bring an action for the recovery of property that has been in the adverse possession of another for a specified time, but also to vest the possessor with title.
Precedent	The intention of such statutes is not to punish one who neglects to assert rights, but to protect those who have maintained the possession of property for the time specified by the statute under claim of right or colour of title.
Precedent	(See American Jurisprudence, Vol.
Precedent	3, 2d, p. 81.
Precedent	It is important to keep in mind while studying the American notion of adverse possession, especially in the backdrop of limitation statutes, that the intention to dispossess cannot be given a complete go-by.
Precedent	Simple application of limitation shall not be enough by itself for the success of  an adverse possession claim."
Precedent	35.
Precedent	A person pleading adverse possession has no equities in his favour since he is trying to defeat the rights of the true owner.
Precedent	It is for him to clearly plead and establish all facts necessary to establish adverse possession.
Precedent	Though we got this law of adverse possession from the British, it is important to note that these days English Courts are taking a very negative view towards the law of adverse possession.
Precedent	The English law was amended and changed substantially to reflect these changes, particularly in light of the view that property is a human right adopted by <ORG>.
Precedent	This Court in Revamma (supra) observed that to understand the true nature of adverse possession, <NAME> v. <ORG> [1962] 2 WLR 1020 : [1962] 2 All ER 288 can be considered where <ORG> referring to <NAME> v. <NAME> [1930] 2 K.B.
Precedent	16 termed adverse possession as a negative and consequential right effected only because somebody else's positive right to access  the court is barred by operation of law.
Precedent	As against the rights of the paper-owner, in the context of adverse possession, there evolves a set of competing rights in favour of the adverse possessor who has, for a long period of time, cared for the land, developed it, as against the owner of the property who has ignored the property.
Precedent	36.
Precedent	The right to property is now considered to be not only constitutional or statutory right but also a human right.
Precedent	Human rights have already been considered in realm of individual rights such as right to health, right to livelihood, right to shelter and employment etc.
Precedent	But now human rights are gaining a multi faceted dimension.
Precedent	Right to property is also considered very much a part of the new dimension.
Precedent	Therefore, even claim of adverse possession has to be read in that context.
Precedent	37.
Precedent	The changing attitude of <ORG> is quite visible from the judgment of <ORG> v.  1  Palmer (2005) 3 WLR 554.
Precedent	The Court here tried to read the human rights position in t he context of adverse possession.
Precedent	But what is commendable is that the dimension of human rights have widened so much that now property dispute issues are also being raised within the contours of human rights.
Precedent	With the expanding jurisprudence of <ORG>, the <ORG> has taken an unkind view to the concept of adverse possession.
Precedent	38.
Precedent	Paragraphs from 26 to 29 of <NAME> (supra) are set out as under:-  26.
Precedent	With the expanding jurisprudence of the European <ORG> of Human Rights, the <ORG> has taken an unkind view to the concept of adverse possession in the recent judgment of <ORG> v. United Kingdom (2005) 49 ERG 90 which concerned the loss of ownership of land by virtue of adverse possession.
Precedent	In the said case, "the applicant company was the registered owner of a plot of 23 hectares of agricultural land.
Precedent	The owners of a property adjacent to the land, Mr and Mrs <NAME> (the <NAME>s) occupied the land under a grazing agreement.
Precedent	After a brief exchange of documents in  December 1983 a chartered surveyor acting for the applicants wrote to the <NAME> noting that the grazing agreement was about to expire and requiring them to vacate the land."
Precedent	The <NAME> continued to use the whole of the disputed land for farming without the permission of the applicants from September 1998 till 1999.
Precedent	In 1997, Mr <NAME> moved <ORG> against the applicant on the ground that he had obtained title by adverse possession.
Precedent	The <NAME> challenged the applicant company's claims under the Limitation Act , 1980 (the 1980 Act) which provides that a person cannot bring an action to recover any land after the expiration of 12 years of adverse possession by another.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	The judgment was pronounced in <ORG> v. <NAME> (2000) 3 WLR 242 : 2000 Ch 676.
Precedent	The Court held in favour of the <NAME> but went on to observe the irony in law of adverse possession.
Precedent	The court observed that the law which provides to oust an owner on the basis of inaction of 12 years is "illogical and disprop ortionate".
Precedent	The effect of such law would "seem draconian to the owner"  and "a windfall for the squatter".
Precedent	The court expressed its astonishment on the prevalent law that ousting an owner for not taking action within limitation is illogical.
Precedent	The applicant company aggrieved by the said judgment filed an appeal and <ORG> reversed the <ORG> decision.
Precedent	The <NAME> then appealed to <ORG>, which, allowed their appeal and restored the order of the <ORG>.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	<ORG> in <ORG> v. <NAME> (2003) 1 AC 419 : (2002) 3 WLR 221 : (2002) 3 All ER 865 (HL), observed that the <NAME> had possession of the land in the ordinary sense of the word, and, therefore, the applicant company had been dispossessed of it within the meaning of the Limitation Act of 1980.
Precedent	29.
Precedent	We deem it proper to reproduce the relevant portion of the judgment in P.T.
Precedent	<CITATION_663164> : (SCC p. 79, paras 51-52) "51.
Precedent	Thereafter the applicants moved <ORG> (ECHR) a lleging that the United Kingdom law on adverse possession, by which they lost land to a neighbour, operated in violation of Article 1 of Protocol 1 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (`the Convention').
Precedent	52.
Precedent	It was contended by the applicants that they had been deprived of their land by the operation of the domestic law on adverse possession which is in contravention with Article 1 of Protocol 1 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (`the Convention'), which reads as under:  `Every natural or legal person is entitled to the peaceful enjoyment of his possession.
Precedent	No one shall be deprived of his possession except in the public interest and subject to the conditions provided for by law and by the general principles of international law.
Precedent	The preceding provisions shall not, however, in any way impair the right of a <ORG> to enforce such laws as it deems necessary to control the use of property in accordance with the general interest  or to secure the payment of taxes or other contributions or penalties.'
Precedent	"  This <ORG> in <NAME> case also mentioned that <ORG> importantly laid down three-pronged test to judge the interference of the Government with the right of "peaceful enjoyment of property":  (<ORG> p. 79, para 53) "53.
Precedent	... [In] <NAME> v. Italy [GC] No.
Precedent	33202 of 1996 '' 108-14 ECHR 2000-I, it was held that the `interference' should comply with the principle of lawfulness and pursue a legitimate aim (public interest) by means reasonably proportionate to the aim sought to be realised."
Precedent	2  The <ORG> observed:(<NAME> case 79-80, paras 54-56) "54.
Precedent	... `The question nevertheless remains whether, even having regard to the lack of care and inadvertence on the part of the applicants and their advisers, the deprivation of their title to the registered land and the transfer of beneficial ownership to those in unauthorized possession struck a fair balance with any legitimate public interest served.
Precedent	In these circumst ances, the <ORG> concludes that the application of the provisions of the 1925 and 1980 Acts to deprive the applicant companies of their title to the registered land imposed on them an individual and excessive burden and upset the fair balance between the demands of the public interest on the one hand and the applicants' right to the peaceful enjoyment of their possessions on the other.
Precedent	There has therefore been a violation of Article 1 of Protocol 1.'
Precedent	55.
Precedent	The question of the application of Article 41 was referred for the Grand Chamber Hearing of the <ORG>.
Precedent	This case sets the field of adverse possession and its interface with the right to peaceful enjoyment in all its complexity.
Precedent	56.
Precedent	Therefore it will have to be kept in mind the courts around the world are taking an unkind view towards statutes of limitation overriding property rights."
Precedent	39.
Precedent	In <NAME> case, this <ORG> ultimately observed as under:  2  "32.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before parting with this case, we deem it appropriate to observe that the law of adverse  possession which ousts an owner on the basis of inaction within limitation is irrational, illogical and wholly disproportionate.
RatioOfTheDecision	The law as it exists is extremely harsh for the true owner and a windfall for a dishonest person who had illegally taken possession of the property of the true owner.
RatioOfTheDecision	The law ought not to benefit a person who in a clandestine manner takes possession of the property of the owner in contravention of law.
Precedent	This in substance would mean that the law gives seal of approval to the illegal action or activities of a rank trespasser or who had wrongfully taken possession of the property of the true owner.
Precedent	33.
Precedent	We fail to comprehend why the law should place premium on dishonesty by legitimising possession of a rank trespasser and compelling the owner to lose his possession only because of his inaction in taking back the possession within limitation."
Precedent	Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution - a principle of a civilized society  40.
Fact	Another important development in the protection of property r ights was the Fifth Amendment.
Fact	<NAME> was the drafter and key supporter for the Fifth Amendment.
Fact	The Fifth Amendment states: "nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation".
Fact	The main issue is to pay just compensation for acquiring the property.
Fact	There are primarily two situations when a landowner may obtain compensation for land officially transferred to or depreciated by the government.
Fact	First, an owner may be entitled to compensation when a governmental entity intentionally acquires private property through a formal condemnation proceeding and without the owner's consent.
Fact	The State's power to take property is considered inherent through its eminent domain powers as a sovereign.
Fact	Through the condemnation proceedings, the government obtains the necessary interest in the land, and the Fifth Amendment requires that the property owner be compensated for this loss.
Precedent	41.
Precedent	The second situation requiring compensation under Fifth Amendment occurs when the government has not official ly acquired private property through a formal condemnation proceeding, but "nonetheless takes property by physically invading or appropriating it".
Precedent	Under this scenario, the property owner, at the point in which a "taking" has occurred, has the option of filing a claim against the government actor to recover just compensation for the loss.
Precedent	When the landowner sues the government seeking compensation for a taking, it is considered an inverse condemnation proceeding, because the landowner and not the government is bringing the cause of action.
Precedent	42.
Precedent	We inherited this law of adverse possession from the British.
Precedent	The <ORG> may consider abolishing the law of adverse possession or at least amending and making substantial changes in law in the larger public interest.
Precedent	The Government instrumentalities - including the police -  in the instant case have attempted to possess land adversely.
RatioOfTheDecision	This, in our opinion, a testament to the absurdity of the law and a black mark upon the justice system's legitimacy.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Governmen t should protect the property of a citizen - not steal it.
RatioOfTheDecision	And yet, as the law currently stands, they may do just that.
RatioOfTheDecision	If this law is to be retained, according to the wisdom of the <ORG>, then at least the law must require those who adversely possess land to compensate title owners according to the prevalent market rate of the land or property in question.
RatioOfTheDecision	This alternative would provide some semblance of justice to those who have done nothing other than sitting on their rights for the statutory period, while allowing the adverse possessor to remain on property.
RatioOfTheDecision	2  While it may be indefensible to require all adverse possessors - some of whom may be poor - to pay market rates for the land they possess, perhaps some lesser amount would be realistic in most of the cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> may either fix a set range of rates or to leave it to the judiciary with the option of choosing from within a set range of rates so as to tailor the compensation to the equities of a given case.
Precedent	43.
Precedent	The <ORG> must seri ously consider at least to abolish "bad faith" adverse possession, i.e., adverse possession achieved through intentional trespassing.
Precedent	Actually believing it to be their own could receive title through adverse possession sends a wrong signal to the society at large.
Precedent	Such a change would ensure that only those who had established attachments to the land through honest means would be entitled to legal relief.
Precedent	44.
Precedent	In case, the <ORG> decides to retain the law of adverse possession, the <ORG> might simply require adverse possession claimants to possess the property in question for a period of 30 to 50 years, rather than a mere  12.
Precedent	Such an extension would help to ensure that successful claimants have lived on the land for generations, and are therefore less likely to be individually culpable for the trespass (although their forebears might).
Precedent	A longer statutory period would also decrease the frequency of adverse possession suits and ensure that only those claimants most intimately connected with the land a cquire it, while only the most passive and unprotective owners lose title.
Precedent	45.
Precedent	Reverting to the facts of this case, if the Police department of the <ORG> with all its might is bent upon taking possession of any land or building in a clandestine manner, then, perhaps no one would be able to effectively prevent them.
Precedent	46.
Precedent	It is our bounden duty and obligation to ascertain the intention of the <ORG> while interpreting the law.
Precedent	Law and Justice, more often than not, happily coincide only rarely we find serious conflict.
Precedent	The archaic law of adverse possession is one such.
Precedent	A serious re-look is absolutely imperative in the larger interest of the people.
Precedent	47.
Precedent	Adverse possession allows a trespasser - a person guilty of a tort, or even a crime, in the eyes of law - to gain legal title to land which he has illegally possessed for 12 years.
Precedent	How 12 years of illegality can suddenly be converted to legal title is, logically and morally speaking, baffling.
Precedent	This outmoded law essentially asks the judiciary to place its st amp of approval upon conduct that the ordinary Indian citizen would find reprehensible.
Precedent	48.
Precedent	The doctrine of adverse possession has troubled a great many legal minds.
Precedent	We are clearly of the opinion that time has come for change.
Precedent	49.
Precedent	If the protectors of law become the grabbers of the property (land and building), then, people will be left with no protection and there would be a total anarchy in the entire country.
Precedent	50.
Precedent	It is indeed a very disturbing and dangerous trend.
Precedent	In our considered view, it must be arrested without further loss of time in the larger public interest.
Precedent	No Government <ORG>, <ORG>, and much less the Police <ORG> should be permitted to perfect the title of the land or building by invoking the provisions of adverse possession and grab the property of its own citizens in the manner that has been done in this case.
Precedent	2  51.
Precedent	In our considered view, there is an urgent need for a fresh look of the entire law on adverse possession.
RulingByPresentCourt	We recommend <ORG> to immediately  consider and seriously deliberate either abolition of the law of adverse possession and in the alternate to make suitable amendments in the law of adverse possession.
RulingByPresentCourt	A copy of this judgment be sent to the Secretary, <ORG>, <ORG>, Government of India for taking appropriate steps in accordance with law.
RulingByPresentCourt	52.
RulingByPresentCourt	This Special Leave Petition is dismissed with costs of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only) to be paid by the State of Haryana for filing a totally frivolous petition and unnecessarily wasting the time of the <ORG> and demonstrating its evil design of grabbing the properties of lawful owners in a clandestine manner.
RulingByPresentCourt	The costs be deposited within four weeks from the date of pronouncement of this judgment.
RulingByPresentCourt	In this petition, we did not issue notice to the defendants, therefore, we direct that the costs be deposited with <ORG> for utilizing the same to enable the poor litigants to contest their cases.
RulingByPresentCourt	2  53.
RulingByPresentCourt	This Special Leave Pe tition being devoid of any merit is accordingly dismissed.
RulingByLowerCourt	..................................J.
RulingByLowerCourt	(<NAME>) .................................J.
RulingByLowerCourt	(<NAME>) New Delhi:  September 30, 2011
