Fact	<NAME> J.
Fact	1.
Fact	These are two writ petitions filed by <ORG>, and its Executive Director and raise a common question as to the interpretation of Section 3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 and Rules 9 and 49 framed there under (hereinafter referred to respectively as "the Act" and Rules) which we think is practically concluded by the decision of this Court in the case of <ORG> (1979 E.L.T.
Fact	J 581).
Fact	We shall, however, first set out the relevant facts to understand the context in which this question comes up for consideration.
Fact	2.
Fact	The petitioner company, inter alia, manufactures different types of electrical wires, for this purpose the petitioner company purchases copper wire bars and aluminium rods/ingots.
Fact	These wires bars, rods and ingots, after being processed, are coated with varnish for insulation.
Fact	The varnish was being manufactured by the petitioner from resin.
Fact	The petitioner held separate licenses for the manufacture of ins ulated wires, varnish and synthetic resins.
Fact	We are concerned in this petition with the assessed's process of manufacturing varnish.
Fact	3.
Fact	The petitioner manufactured two types of varnish, one known as TERMEX and the other as FORMADEV.
Fact	The former was manufactured from <ORG> and the latter from <ORG>.
Fact	Prior to July 1972 <ORG> was manufactured by the following process.
Fact	D.M.T.
Fact	Ethylone, Glycol, Glycerine and Adipic Acid were first mixed in a reactor with zinc salt as a catalyst and the reaction was carried out gradually increasing the temperature to 235 Degree C. Temperature between 225 Degree C and 235 Degree C was maintained till the process known as alcholists was complete.
Fact	Thereafter, butyl titanate, which is called a cross linking agent, was added and the reaction was continued at the same temperature.
Fact	After a particular stage was reached the material was cooled to about 180 Degree C and thereafter transferred to trays manually and then this liquid was allowed to solidify.
Fact	After ro om temperature was reached the solid substance was broken in lumps and then packed in drums.
Fact	The solidified substances is known in the market as polyester resin.
Fact	This was entered in the register kept for excise purpose and was cleared on payment of duty for further use in the manufacture of the type of varnish known as 'toremex".
Fact	PHENOLIC RESIN was manufactured by the following process :  Metacresol and Formalin were first mixed in a reactor with a particular catalyst and the reaction was carried to a temperature of 90 Degree C. The water element was then removed by a vacuum process of dehydration at a temperature between 70 Degree C and 80 Degree C. Thereafter, cross linking agent was added and the reaction continued till a particular molecular weight was reached.
Fact	When that stage was reached a little more metacresol was added and the solution was collected in drums.
Fact	This solution was called and known in the market as phenolic resin.
Fact	This solution was entered in the excise register and cleared on payment of e xcise duty and utilised in the manufacture of Formadev varnish.
Fact	4.
Fact	It will thus be seen that prior to 1972 the assessed's manufacture of varnish was carried out in two stages.
Fact	In the first stage, the petitioner obtained the substance which was known in the market as polyester resin or phenolic resin and on the manufacture of this substance excise duty was paid.
Fact	Thereafter, the resin either in solid or solution form was utilised for manufacture of varnish which constituted the second stage of manufacture.
Fact	5.
Fact	We are, however, concerned here with the period subsequent to July 1972 when the petitioner decided to manufacture the varnish by a single continuous process instead of in the above two stages.
Fact	The process now employed to obtain Termex varnish was the same as it was prior to July 1972 till the point of completion of the process known as alcholists.
Fact	However, thereafter, instead of adding the cross linking agent to obtain the resin in solid form the previous reaction was continued in a kettle till a partic ular molecular weight was reached.
Fact	Thereafter, a small amount of metacresol was added and the whole solution which was still at a temperature of 200 Degree C was directly transferred to a bigger kettle where further quantities of was directly transferred to a bigger kettle where further quantities of metacresol and other ingredients (namely solvent naphtha or equivalents and phenol) were added.
Fact	After homogeneity was obtained certain other ingredients namely Desmodur CT stable, butyl titanate and zinc naphthanate or octoate were added.
Fact	The resultant product was taken off in the form of liquid varnish.
Fact	In other words, the two stages of production of resin and the manufacture of varnish were integrated and some changes made so that there was one continuous manufacturing process leading to the end product, (namely, varnish) without any intermediate product (namely, resin) being collected in trays or drums for being used for the manufacture of varnish.
Fact	On the other hand, in the new process the material which was b oiled for the purposes of the first stage was transferred as a hot molten liquid to a bigger kettle in which the second stage of the manufacture was carried out.
Fact	6.
Fact	In the same manner there was also a modification of the process of manufacture of formadev varnish.
Fact	As before Metacresol and Formalin were put in a reactor with catalyst, heated to the temperature of 90 Degree C and then subjected to a process of dehydration.
Fact	At this stage metacresol was added and the temperature was maintained at 70 Degree C till a particular molecular weight was reached.
Fact	Thereafter, desmodur AP stable solution was added and the mixture was transferred manually to another kettle in which the other ingredients for varnish making were already there.
Fact	The cross linking agent was then added and the resulting product was the varnish.
Fact	Here the difference between the old and new process is that the solution which is obtained at the intermediate stage in the old process was the commercial product known as phenolic resin while in the new  process the intermediate product contained a component referred to above as Desmodur AP which is a Volatile Solvent and which is not present in Phenolic resin as known to the market.
Fact	7.
Fact	Varnish is one of the items liable to excise duty under Tariff Item 14-II of the First Schedule to the Act.
Fact	However, by a notification dated 18th January, 1964, the Government had exempted varnish from excise duty where the same was manufactured out of ingredients on which excise duty had been paid and where it was used for insulating electrical wires produced within the same factory.
Fact	As the petitioner was paying excise duty on resins, it was not being required to pay any excise duty on the varnish which it was manufacturing.
Fact	8.
Fact	The controversy between the parties arose when on 1st July, 1972, the petitioner addressed a letter to <NAME> stating that it had decided to discontinue the manufacture of resins and to manufacture varnish by a direct process from various raw materials and so would no lo nger be paying any excise duty on synthetic resins.
Fact	The petitioner, therefore, requested the officer to cancel the classification list filed by it earlier.
Fact	This was followed up by another letter dated 2nd October, 1972 by which the petitioner company intimated <ORG> that from 2nd September, 1972 it had discontinued the manufacture of resins and had started manufacturing of varnish by a direct process.
Fact	It again requested the officer for the cancellation of the earlier classification list and also forwarded the license for manufacture of resins for cancellation.
Fact	9.
Fact	There followed some correspondence, the details of which are not relevant for our present purpose.
Fact	Ultimately, by an order dated 6th June, 1974 the Assistant Collector of Central Excise held that, during its manufacture of varnish the petitioner was manufacturing polyester resin and phenolic resin which were liable to excise duty under Tariff Item No.
Fact	15A(1)(i).
Fact	The petitioner was advised to apply for a license in Form L-4 to be in  a position to manufacture the synthetic resin dutiable and to furnish details regarding the clearance since 2nd September, 1974 of the aforesaid item.
Fact	The assessed filed an appeal which was rejected on 5th March, 1975 after a hearing.
Fact	The petitioner company filed a revision petition to <ORG> and relied in support of the petition on the decision of <ORG> in the case of <ORG>, as well as the decision of this Court in case of <ORG> (supra).
Fact	However, the petition was rejected by an order dated 6th December, 1977.
Fact	10.
Fact	In the meanwhile, on 4th November, 1974, the Superintendent of Excise called upon the petitioner to show cause why excise duty should not be paid and recovered on the Polyester resin and Phenolic Resin manufactured by it between 3rd September, 1972 and June 1974.
Fact	The petitioner filed a reply pointing out, in particular, that the appeal from the order dated 6th June, 1974 was pending.
Fact	However, by an order  dated 11th February, 1975, the Assistant Collector of <ORG> called upon the petitioner to pay <ORG> Duty amounting to Rs.
Fact	1,55,974/- on the basis that the assessed had manufactured polyester resin and phenolic resin which were dutiable items basing himself, in this regard, on a report of the Deputy Chief Chemist dated 19th July, 1974.
Fact	The petitioner filed an appeal to the Appellate Collector of <ORG>, who rejected the appeal on 30th September, 1975.
Fact	A revision petition was dismissed by the <ORG> on 17th November, 1977.
Argument	Similar demands also arose in respect of subsequent periods between July 1974 and 15th February, 1978 and the petitioner was called upon to pay and paid under protest excise duty amounting to Rs.
Argument	5,00,283.17, as per the details set out in Annexure S to the writ petition.
Argument	In these circumstances, the petitioner came to this <ORG> and C-W 219 of 1978 by which it sought for appropriate reliefs against the orders of the respondents dated 6th June, 1974, 11th February,  1975, 5th March, 1975, 30th September, 1975 and 17th November, 1977, for orders restraining the respondents from removing excise duty amounting to Rs.
Argument	1,55,974.73 and for further directions to the respondents to refund the excise duty of Rs.
Argument	5,00,213.17 illegally collected in respect of the period between July 1974 and 15th February, 1978.
Argument	A specific prayer for relief in respect of the order dated 6th December, 1977, however, appears to have been omitted from the prayer clause in para 33, of this writ petition, apparently because a prayer for quashing the order dated 6-12-1977 has been made in C.W.
Argument	220/78 as pointed out in the following paragraph.
Argument	11.
Argument	We have earlier referred to the fact that on 6th June, 1974 the Assistant Collector of Central Excise called upon the petitioner to take out a license for the manufacture of synthetic resin in the factory, that this order had been confirmed by the Appellate Collector on 5th March, 1975 and that the petitioner had filed a revision petition before <ORG> vernment against the order of the Appellate Collector.
Argument	But in the meanwhile, to avoid the controversy created by the department because the Termex varnish was being manufactured by, what can be described as, a two kettle process the petitioner proposed to change the process.
Argument	It wrote to the Assistant Collector on 10th September 1975 informing him that instead to two kettles the petitioner company proposed to employ a single kettle process in which the varnish would be produced in a single continuous process.
Argument	It is not necessary once again to repeat the process employed by the assessed.
Argument	It is sufficient to mention that it was now proposed that, after the initial process of boiling certain materials with a catalyst up to a particular temperature the material would be allowed to cool about to 170 Degree C and all the other raw materials necessary for the manufacture of varnish would be added in the same vessel or kettle so that only the finished varnish emerged from the process for being packed in drums after te sting.
Argument	The idea was that the whole reaction from the beginning to the end should take place in only one kettle and that there should be no removal of the product in containers or the transfer from one kettle to another at any intermediate stage.
Argument	The company informed the Assistant Collector that they proposed to start the new process from 9th October, 1975.
Fact	However, on 3rd October, 1975 the Superintendent of Central Excise wrote to the petitioners stating that the liability to pay central excise duty on synthetic resin would continue till written permission to the effect that no duty was chargeable was obtained from the Assistant Collector and so the new process was not started.
Fact	Thereafter, certain correspondence between the parties followed and the factory premises of the petitioners was visited by the deputy Chief Chemist on 11th May, 1976.
Fact	On that date, the petitioner company for the first and last time employed the single kettle process to enable the Deputy Chief Chemist to carry out this test.
Fact	Eventually,  on 25th June, 1976 the Assistant Collector passed an order stating that, except for the difference that the two stages of the manufacturing process were carried out in the same reaction vessel in the revised process, the new method of manufacturing was basically the same as the earliest process of manufacture and that, therefore, "the petitioner's product, namely termex resin, is correctly classifiable as synthetic resin as at stage 1 and is, therefore, chargeable to excise duty under Item 15A.
Fact	This was confirmed on appeal by the Appellate Collector on 31st August, 1976 and a further revision petition of the company was disposed by the <ORG> on 6th December, 1977 along with the earlier revision petition, which had been preferred by the petitioner against the order of the Appellate Collector dated 5th March, 1975.
Fact	The petitioner has stated that, in view of the instructions issued by the Assistant Collector to maintain the status quo, the <ORG> did not employ the one kettle process except on 11th May, 1 976.
Fact	On that date 120 kg.
Fact	of termex varnish had been produced by that process and cleared after payment of Rs.
Fact	871.93 as excise duty under protest.
Fact	The <ORG>, however, has come to this Court with C.W.
Fact	220 of 1978 praying that the orders dated 25th June, 1976, 31st August, 1976 and 6th December, 1977 be quashed and that the respondents be directed to refund the excise duty of Rs.
Fact	871.93 illegally collected from the petitioner.
Argument	12.
Argument	We have set out the facts at some length because two types of processes were being employed by the assessed and it is necessary to understand these in order to answer the question that comes up for consideration in these writ petitions.
Argument	The petitioner's case is that it is engaged in the manufacture of varnish which is being utilised by it for insulating the wires, rods and other electrical materials.
Argument	This process of manufacture begins at the earliest stage when the raw materials are first fed into the plant.
Argument	According to the petitioner it makes no difference whether the varnish fi nally emerges as a result of Chemical reactions in one kettle but there is only one end product manufactured by the petitioner viz.
Argument	varnish.
Argument	It may be that in plant and there is only one the course of this single process of manufacture, a product is obtained which may perhaps fall within the description in Item 15A.
Argument	The petitioner's case is that it does not but that even assuming for purposes of argument that this interim product can be described as polyester or phenolic resin it is not liable to duty because the interim product is only an "in process" product which is neither intended to be, nor is in fact, removed from the place of manufacture.
Argument	In the single kettle process there is no removal at all and in the two kettle process what is transferred from one kettle to another is a hot molten liquid which passes on to the second kettle as a step or stage in the integrated process of manufacture of varnish carried out by the petitioner.
Argument	In, these circumstances, it is submitted that, other questions apart, ther e is no removal of the resin so as to attract duty within the meaning of Rule 9 read with Rule 49 of the Central Excise Rules.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	It will be necessary for the present discussion, to start with a somewhat detailed reference to the decision of this court in the <ORG> case (supra), because that decision deals with the basic issues involved in this writ petition.
RulingByLowerCourt	(a) In that case, which was decided as far back as 3-4-1972 the facts were as follows : The petitioner had a refinery to process Crude Oil for production of various petroleum products.
RulingByLowerCourt	To run this refinery a plant had been installed at Visakhapatnam which commenced production in May 1975.
RulingByLowerCourt	The plant of the petitioner at Visakhapatnam, generally speaking, worked in the following manner : There was a Crude Unit in which Crude Oil is First processed resulting in six basic products, namely (i) Gas, (ii) Naphtha Base Stock/Motor Gasoline, (iii) Kerosene Base stock, (iv) Diesel Base Stock, (v) Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit Feed Stock, and (vi) Intermediate  non-marketable Fuel Oil.
Fact	The Court was concerned with the sixth product.
Argument	This oil was then transmitted through pipelines to all or any of the three units of the plant, namely, (a) <ORG>, or (b) <ORG>, or (c) Tanks 170 and 171.
Argument	The contention of the petitioner was that this intermediate non-marketable fuel oil, if sent to the <ORG>, was for the purpose of further processing but it might be sent from the <ORG> to Tank 170 and 171 for storage.
Argument	If this oil was directly sent to Tanks 170 and 171, it was only for the purpose of storing the same for being transmitted there from either to the furnace for heating the P.D.
Argument	unit or to the furnace for heating the Crude unit.
Argument	The intermediate non-marketable Fuel Oil might also be sent to the bonded tank via the <ORG> either for being transmitted as such to Tanks 170 and 171 or for marketing the same after adding to it what was called Cutter stock, without adding which, according to the petitioner, the oil was not marketable, due to high viscosity, bu t could be used and had been used internally for heating the plant of the petitioner to produce various marketable products.
Argument	According to the petitioner it paid excise duty on such oil stored in Tanks 170 and 171 on its transmission either directly from <ORG> or from <ORG> or from the bonded tank, which it was not liable to pay inasmuch as in that state the oil was what is described as Burner Fuel oil and not Furnace Oil.
Argument	(b) Several contentions were urged on behalf of the petitioner.
RatioOfTheDecision	For our purposes, it is sufficient to refer to contentions Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 and 3 which have been set out at page 585 of the report :  "2.
RatioOfTheDecision	Excise duty is on production and not on stages of production.
RatioOfTheDecision	Burner Fuel Oil is an intermediate product derived at an intermediate stage in the process of manufacture of finished petroleum product.
RatioOfTheDecision	Burner Fuel Oil is not marketable as such without further processing or blending with other oil, i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	cutter stock.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, Burner Fuel Oil is not excisable goods and there is no manufa cture of goods within the meaning of the said Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	3.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no removal of Burner Fuel Oil within the meaning of Rule 49 of the said Rules.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rule 49 is a condition precedent to the recover of excise duty."
Argument	On the other hand, the case of the respondent was that the oil in question was not consumed by the petitioner as an inseparable part of an unbroken continuous and uninterrupted process of manufacturing and that what the petitioner describes as Burner Fuel Oil was actually Furnace Oil, the process of manufacture of which had ended prior to removal for consumption.
Argument	It was argued that once the said oil had been separated from the crude oil it was a finished product liable to excise duty whether it was used in the refinery or was marketed by edition of cutter stock or otherwise.
Argument	(c) The judgment of the court was delivered by one of us (<NAME>) At the outset it explained the scope of Section 3 of the Act read with Rules 9, 47 and 49 as follows :-  "The legislative intent for levy and collection of  excise duty, on a reading of the Excise Act and the Excise Rules, appears to be that no duty is payable on intermediate products if the intermediate products by themselves are not the end products being manufactured by a particular factory provided, however, the intermediate products and the end products are obtained by one continuous uninterrupted integrated process as opposed to distinct or independent processes.
RatioOfTheDecision	We find force in Mr. <NAME>'s contention that the concept of making assessment only at the stage of removal supports this legislative intent.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed through a particular article produced may attract levy of excise duty, as contemplated by section 3 of the Act, which is the charging section, removal is the essence of the crystallisation of the charge as would be apparent from a reading of section 4 of the Act and Rule 49 of the Excise Rules.
RatioOfTheDecision	The quantum of the charge is one the value at the time of removal and the value at the time of removal if the yard-stick for qualifying the charge.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though  levy is attracted on production but the power to collect duty is only on removal.
RatioOfTheDecision	There may be circumstances where production may take place and yet the product may not be issued out, utilised, or marketed in which case the scheme of the Act and the Rules tend to show that no excise duty would be collected on the product.
RatioOfTheDecision	For example the glut of a particular article in the market may make it expedient for a manufacturer to hold back his product or financial circumstances may prevent the finished product to be marketed.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is in this context, therefore, that the provisions of Section 3 of the Act and Rules 9 and 49 of the Excise Rules have to be harmonised.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, these provisions complement each other.
Statute	Section 3 lays down the legislative policy on what products excise duty may be levied.
Statute	Rule 9 is an injunction on the manufacturer that he has not to remove any excisable goods from the place of manufacture or any specified premises appurtenant thereto, whether for consumption, export or manufactures of any ot her commodity in or outside such place unless he first pays the excise duty leviable on these goods.
Statute	Rule 49 is a direction to the excise authorities that the payment of excise duty shall not be demanded until excisable goods are about to be issued out of place or premises specified under Rule 9 or are about to be removed from a store room or other place or storage approved by the Collector under Rule 47.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, the point out of time when duty must be paid or may be collected is clearly given.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, it is provided that there must be removal from the specified place to attract the payment of duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	If there is no removal there would be no question of payment.
RatioOfTheDecision	Removal is a positive act and cannot have any reference to disappearance of the product.
RatioOfTheDecision	For example evaporating would not be removal for that taken place by natural causes in the process of manufacture or even afterwards.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, waste, of product while in the pipe-line or in storage may take place on account of natural causes or otherwise.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have , therefore, to see whether in the present case the product in question is (a) only an intermediate product obtained in the process of manufacturing of any other finished petroleum product, (b) whether this product is treated as an end product or only an intermediate product by processing of which may other product is to be obtained, and (c) whether this product can be regarded as having been removed at any stage for any of the purposes mentioned in Rule 9 of the Excise Rules."
RatioOfTheDecision	It was pointed out that if the product in question i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	Burner Fuel Oil were first sent to <ORG> and from there to the Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit and on being blended with cutter stock were marketed as Marketable Fuel Oil, it would be a part of the continuous uninterrupted process of manufacture and would not attract the levy or assessment of excise duty by itself and the product which would be subject to duty will be the end product, namely, the marketable fuel oil.
RatioOfTheDecision	As long as the oil in question was thus in the pipeline o f the petitioner's refinery it would continue to be the intermediate product being utilised in one single process for the manufacture of another product.
Argument	(d) Applying the principles outlined above to the facts of the case before the court it was further observed him, the learned Judge observed :-  "From what we have been told about the process of manufacture and even in accordance with the contention of the petitioner there can be no manner of doubt that the oil coming into tanks 170 and 171, even if non-marketable as utilised for the purposes of heating the furnace of the various units in the refinery of the petitioner.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has not been shown to us that the oil coming out from tanks 170 and 171 is further processed to be converted into any other product.
RatioOfTheDecision	As already noticed earlier, this very oil if it goes from the Crude Unit to the P.D.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unit and further on to the Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit and thence for addition of cutter stock or blending with cutter stock the oil is being utilised for being converted  into some other product but if it comes into tanks 170 and 171 either directly from the Crude Unit or via the P.D.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unit or the bonded tank it is not being utilised for being converted into another product but is thereafter utilised for heating purposes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Oil thus obtained for use as a heating medium either by separating it from Crude oil and other base stocks in the Crude Unit or when this very type of oil goes from the Crude Unit to the P.D.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unit or blending unit to tanks 170 and 171, it is only for one purpose and is to use it as fuel.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, it must be held that the oil which comes into tanks 170 and 171 is really an end product and distinct from an intermediary product utilised in an uninterrupted process of manufacture for obtaining another product."
RatioOfTheDecision	It was urged on behalf of the petitioner in that case that even where oil was used for heating purposes it was really a self generating fuel obtained the process of manufacture of various petroleum products and that even, if consumed for heating, it was  part of an integrated uninterrupted continuous process of manufacture, because the self generating fuel was a necessity for the running of the plant to get the end product.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it was pointed out that Excise Duty is attracted on all excisable goods which are produced as and when the some are removed within the meaning of Rules 9 and 49 and that the only product which is not excisable is the product which itself gets converted into another product which may be excisable as a single continuous process.
RatioOfTheDecision	(e) The decision of <ORG> in <ORG> v. <NAME>, Assistant Collector and others, (Miscellaneous Case No.
RatioOfTheDecision	491 of 1963, decided on 30-4-1970) was relied upon on behalf of the petitioner but distinguished as under.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that case the petitioner company employed a continuous and integrated process for the manufacture of Nylon Yarn.
RatioOfTheDecision	At an intermediate stage, the company obtained Polymer Chips which were used or consumed in the further manufacture of the Nylo n Yarn without the chips being taken out of the manufacturing equipment.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> had held that polymer chips did not attract the levy of excise duty as the same were utilised in an uninterrupted integrated process for the manufacture of Nylon yarn and there was no removal within the meaning of Rule 49 read with Rule 9 of the Excise Rules.
RatioOfTheDecision	So, it was pointed out that the decision was not helpful in deciding the point in the Caltex Case.
RatioOfTheDecision	For though there would be no dispute with the proposition that an intermediate product used for obtaining the end product in a single uninterrupted process would not attract duty, the intermediate product would attract duty if it is obtained by one process and was used for being converted into another product by a separate and distinct process.
Precedent	(f) Elaborating on the scope of Rule 9 in the judgment it was said :-  "The Rule thus contemplates the situs on manufacture as the place from where removal has to take place whether for consumption, export or manufacture of any o ther commodity.
Precedent	It obviously makes no reference to the plant or equipment.
Precedent	But where there are two distinct plants within the same factory premises removal can take place either outside the factory premises or within the factory premises if the product obtained by working of one plant is sent to another plant for obtaining another product.
Precedent	There can be no removal of a product within the plant itself so long as the product is in the process of manufacture.
Precedent	There can be removal only if the product goes out of one stream of production into another stream of production or if the produce is issued out of or taken out or consumed if no further processing of that product is to be done.
Precedent	The Rule also contemplates that consumption within the place of manufacture would also amount to removal.
Precedent	The consumption of the product contemplated by Rule 9 is consumption of the product by itself and not for converting it into another product, as in the case of Polymer Chips."
Precedent	(g) It was held on the facts that the moment the oil  went out of the pipeline for consumption as fuel the continuous process of manufacture got snapped.
Precedent	There was no putting back of this oil into the process of manufacture if it is consumed for lighting furnaces or for heating the equipment.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	We think that the above decision completely governs the present case.
Precedent	Like the polymer chips in the <NAME> case (supra), the resin in the present case is converted in the course of the single integrated uninterrupted process of manufacture carried on by the assessed.
Precedent	In the process followed by the petitioner prior to 1972 there were two stages of manufacture.
Precedent	In the first stage it obtained either polyester resin in the form of solidified flakes or phenolic resin in the form of a solution.
Precedent	These were products well known in the market as resins.
Precedent	It was open to the petitioner to deal with the resin in whatever manner it liked.
Precedent	It would be removed for purpose of sale or it could be removed for consumption in the second stage of manufacture.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact perhaps most of the resi n was used for the second stage of manufacture.
RatioOfTheDecision	But in the state of affairs as it then stood, the two stages were totally independent.
RatioOfTheDecision	The link in the chain of manufacture snapped at the point of time when the resin was produced, as in the case of the Burner Fuel Oil in the <ORG> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Its subsequent use for the manufacture of a different commodity which the assessed also manufacture was of no relevance.
RatioOfTheDecision	But there has been a vital change in the process of manufacture subsequent to July 1972.
Fact	The process has been converted from a two stage process into a single continuous and uninterrupted process.
Fact	The question is not whether the Chemical reactions take place in one kettle or in two kettles.
Fact	The question is whether, as before the petitioner is manufacturing resins and then manufacturing varnish by utilising its own resins or whether the petitioner has switched over to a process of manufacture of varnish which is single integrated, continuous and uninterrupted.
RatioOfTheDecision	We think there can be no doubt that, after July 1 972, the position is that, starting from the stage when the raw materials are put in right up to the stage when the solution of varnish emerges, there is only one integrated process of which the end product is varnish.
RatioOfTheDecision	At the intermediate stage no doubt some product which can be Chemically analysed as resin has emerged but this product never comes out of the plant.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is all the time in the plant itself and it is used for manufacturing into the end product.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is, therefore, clearly a case of consumption of the intermediate product for the purposes of converting it into another product like the case of Polymer Chips in the <ORG> case and not consumption of it by itself (as in the case of furnace oil dealt with in the <ORG> case).
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
RatioOfTheDecision	We may also point out that in <CITATION_702832> - 1980 E.L.T.
Precedent	320, the question whether excise duty could be levied and recovered on 'Silver' obtained by the petitioner as an "in-process material" in the manufacture of woollen yarn in its factory premises was answered in the  negative <ORG> (<ORG>) and <ORG> - 1978 E.L.T.
Precedent	(J 121) were followed, we are, therefore, clearly of opinion that no excise duty is leviable merely because in the process of manufacture of varnish an intermediate product which may be described as resin also emerges.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	Reference was made on behalf of the respondent to the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_835103> (1979 E.L.T.
Precedent	J.
Precedent	674).
Precedent	In that case, the company was a manufacturer of dry cell batteries.
Fact	For this purpose the company needed since cans.
Fact	It purchased zinc ingots, melted them in a furnace and pressed them into moulds to form zinc slabs.
Fact	The slabs were then heated incrolled into a flat form with the help of rollers out of which callots were punched.
Fact	From these callots, cans were made by the impact extrusion process.
Fact	Thereafter, required Chemicals were filled into the cans which after sealing and cladding took the shape of finished dry cell batteries.
Fact	The question for consideration was whether the rough flat forms of zinc ob tained during the process of manufacture which were not removed from the premises but were immediately put to use by feeding them hot into a punching process were excisable as "zinc sheets" falling under Item 26-B(2) of the First Schedule of the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Court found that the flat form from which callots were punched was a produce commercially known as zinc sheets and accepted the argument on behalf of the <ORG> that though the zinc sheets did not go out the factory premises as such, there was a removal in law as contemplated in Rule 9 because they were admittedly removed from the rolling mill for consumption or for manufacture of another excisable commodity.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Judgment contains no discussion of the contention (which has been upheld in <ORG> & <ORG>) that the entire process of manufacture of dry cell batteries was a continuous one and that the utilisation of the zinc sheets even while they were white hot for the purpose of producing the end product could not be described a s removal for purpose of manufacture within the meaning of Rules 9 and 19.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> relied on Rule 173-G for its conclusion but it seems to us that this rule is not helpful.
RulingByLowerCourt	It only lays down the accounting procedure to be followed where the excisable goods are intended to be, and are, removed within the meaning of Rules 9 and 49 so as to attract excise duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	With respect, we find ourselves unable to agree with the conclusion of <ORG>, particularly in view of the judgments of this <ORG> earlier referred to.
RatioOfTheDecision	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	For the above reason, we hold that the petitioner cannot be called upon to pay excise duty in respect of resins on the intermediate product obtained by it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The orders (i) calling upon it to take out a separate license for the manufacture of resins; (ii) requiring it to pay excise duty in respect of the resins manufactured by it; (iii) levying excise duty in respect of such goods including the sum of Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	871.93 collected in respect of the manufacture on 11th May, 1976, are all quash ed.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view we have taken that the intermediate product was obtained in the course of a single continuous uninterrupted process of manufacture of varnish carried on by the assessed, we did not hear the petitioner and express no opinion on the contention raised by it that the intermediate product in the present case was not a "resin" as known to trade.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result these writ petitions are allowed to the extent indicated above.
RulingByPresentCourt	We direct, in C.W.
Fact	219/78, the issue of a writ of certiorari quashing (a) the orders dated 6-6-1974 and 11-2-1975 of the second respondent (Exhibits 'G' & 'H'), (b) the orders dated 5-3-1975 and 30.9.1975 of the third respondent (Exhibits 'J', & 'P'); and (c) the orders dated 6-12-1977 and 17-11-1977 of the first respondent (Exhibits 'L' & 'R') and the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the respondents to refund to the petitioners the excise duty of Rs.
Fact	5,00,283.17 in respect of the period from July, 1974 to 15th February, 1975 illegally collected from it.
Fact	In C.W.
Fact	220/78 we dir ect the issue of a writ of certiorari quashing the orders dated 6-12-1977 (Exhibit 'I') 31-8-1976 (Exhibit 'G') and 25-6-1976 (Exhibit 'E') and the issue of writ of mandamus directing the respondent to refund to the petitioner the sum of Rs.
Fact	871.93 collected from it in respect of the production on 11-5-1976.
Fact	The petitioners will be entitled to one set of costs.
Fact	Counsel's fee Rs.
Fact	500/-.
