Fact	PETITIONER: COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: <ORG>.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 10/04/1964 BENCH: <NAME>, K. BENCH: <NAME>, K. <NAME>, J.C. SIKRI, S.M.
Fact	CITATION: 1964 AIR 1722 1964 SCR (7) 693 CITATOR INFO : R 1965 SC 321 (15) R 1966 SC1053 (17) R 1966 SC1250 (6) F 1967 SC 444 (12) R 1979 SC1291 (8) F 1982 SC 757 (8) ACT: Income Tax-Assessee treated as agent - Estate duty of non- resident paid by assessee-If an allowable deduction-Ex- pression "for the purpose of the business"-Meaning of Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), s. 10(2)(xv)- Estate Duty Act , 1953 , s. 34 .
Fact	HEADNOTE: For the two accounting periods the assessee, a resident company, incorporated outside India paid -estate duty payable on the death of its certain share holders not domiciled in India and debited the said amounts to revenue in its accounts in ascertaining the profits and gains of its business for the said years.
Fact	The Income-tax Officer included the said amounts so paid towards estate duty in the profit s and gains of the company for the said two accounting periods and assessed the company to income-tax for 1955-56 and 1956-57 on that basis.
Fact	The appeals by the assessee to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner were dismissed but on further appeal, <ORG> set aside the said orders and held that the assessee was entitled to deduct the said amount in computing its profits.
Fact	On an application by the Commissioner of Income-tax, the <ORG> stated a case under s. 66(1) of the Act to <ORG> and referred the following question of law for its opinion: "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances ,of the case, the estate duty paid by the company under s, 84 ,of the Estate Duty Act , 1953, is a revenue expenditure deductible in computing the assessee's business income for the ,assessment years in question."
Fact	<ORG> agreed with the view of the <ORG> and answered the question in the affirmative.
Fact	On appeal by special leave it was urged on behalf of the appellants, (1) that the sum paid by  the assessee under s. 84 of the Estate Duty Act were not expenditure of the assessee company and therefore, they could not be deducted from its profits in computing its assessable income under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act; and (2) that even if it was revenue expenditure, it was not laid out or expended wholly or exclusively for the purpose of the assessee's business within the meaning of the said sub-clause.
Fact	Held: (i) There was nothing on the record to show whether in England, where the concerned share holders died, the resident company could recover the amount representing the estate duty paid by it in India from the legal representative of the deceased share holders.
Fact	Therefore, the assessee who, as a statutory agent paid to the <ORG> the estate duty, could not recover the same from the legal representative of the deceased non-resident share holders.
Fact	In that situation the company would be out of pocket to the extent it paid the estate duty of the said persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, it cannot be held that the amounts paid b y the assessee towards estate duty were not expenditure incurred by it, but only amounts paid by it on account with a right to recover the same from the persons on whose behalf it paid.
RatioOfTheDecision	(ii)The expression" for the purpose of the business"in s.10(2) (xv) of the Act is wider in scope than the expression "for the purpose of earning profits".
RatioOfTheDecision	Its range is wide: it may 694 take in not only the day to day running of a business but also the rationalization of its administration and modernization of its machinery; it may include measures for the preservation of the business and for the protection of its assets and property from expropriation, coercive process or assertion of hostile title; it may also comprehend payment of statutory dues and taxes imposed as a pre- condition to commence or for carrying on of a business; it may comprehend many other acts incidental to the carrying on of a business.
RatioOfTheDecision	However wide the meaning of the expression may be, its limits are implicit in it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The purpose shall be for the purpose of  the business, that is to say, the expenditure incurred shall be for carrying on the business and the assessee shall incur it in his capacity as a person carrying on the business.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot include sums spent by the assessee as agent of a third party, whether the origin of the agency is voluntary or statutory; in that event, he pays the amount on behalf of another and for a purpose unconnected with the business.
Fact	In the present case, the amounts in question were paid by the assessee as a statutory agent to discharge a statutory duty unconnected with the business, though the occasion for the imposition arose because of the territorial nexus afforded by the accident of its doing business in India.
Fact	Therefore, it must be held that the estate duty paid by the respondent was not an allowable deduction under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act.
Fact	Case law reviewed.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos.
Fact	384 and 385 of 1963.
Fact	Appeals by special leave from the judgment and Decree dated January 19, 1961, of the Ke <ORG> in Income-tax Referred case No.
Fact	20 of 1959.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME>, for the appellant.
Fact	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for the res- pondents.
Fact	April 10, 1964.
Fact	The judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME> two appeals by special leave raise the question whether the estate duty paid by the resident Company, hereinafter called the assesses, incorporated outside India, on behalf of members not domiciled in India is deductible from its profits in computing its assessable income under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, hereinafter called the Act.
Fact	The material facts are not in dispute and they may be briefly stated.
Fact	The assesses is a resident Company incorpo- rated outside India.
Fact	Most of its shareholders are in the United Kingdom.
Fact	During the accounting period ending March 31, 1955, it paid pound 1,302-9-4 and pound 1,303 towards estate duty which was payable on the death of certain s hare- holders who were not domiciled in India.
Fact	The assessee debited the said amounts to revenue in its accounts in ascertain-  695  ing the profits and gains of its business for the said year.
Fact	Similarly, for the accounting year ending March 31, 1956, it paid a sum of pound 3,809-1-5 towards estate duty payable on the death of certain shareholders and debited the said amount to revenue in its accounts in ascertaining the profits and gains of its business for that year.
Fact	The Income-tax Officer included the said amounts so paid towards estate duty in the profits and gains of the company for the said two accounting periods and assessed the company to income-tax for 1955-56 and 1956-57 on that basis.
Fact	The appeals preferred by the assessee to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner were dismissed.
RulingByLowerCourt	On further appeal to <ORG> it held that the assessee was entitled to deduct the said amount in computing its profits; and on that finding it set aside the orders of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
RulingByLowerCourt	On an  application made by the Commissioner of Income-tax, <ORG> stated a case under s. 66(1) of the Act to <ORG>, and referred the following question of law for its opinion:  "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the estate duty paid by the Company under Section 84 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, is a revenue expenditure deductible in computing the assessee's business income for the assessment years in question?"
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> agreed with the view expressed by <ORG> and answered the question referred to it in the affirmative.
RulingByLowerCourt	The present appeals by special leave have been filed against the said order of <ORG>.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the Commissioner of Income-tax, raised before us the following two points; (1) The sums paid by the assessee under s. 84 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, are not expenditure of the assesseeCompany and, therefore, they cannot be deducted from its profits in computing its assessable income un der s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act; and (2) even if it is revenue expenditure, it is not laid out or expended wholly or exclusively for the purpose of the assessee's business within the meaning of the said sub-clause.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the respondent, supported the judgment of <ORG> and contended that the said estate duty was revenue expenditure incurred by the assessee as it was put out of pocket to that extent and that it had not been proved that the assessee could legally recover the said amounts from the legal representatives of the deceased shareholders.
Argument	He further argued that he said expenditure was wholly and exclusively for the pur- pose of the assessee's business within the meaning of s.10(2)(xv) of the Act inasmuch as it discharged its statu- tory obligation in order to preserve the assets of the com- pany.
Argument	The question raised turns upon the provisions of s. 10(2)   (xv) of the The act.
Statute	It reads :   Section 10 .
Statute	Business-The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head  "Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation" in respect of the profits and gains of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him.
Statute	(2) Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely:-  (xv) any expenditure (not being an allowance of the nature described in any of the clauses (1) to (xiv) inclusively, and not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee) laid out or expended wholly or exclusively for the purpose of such business, profession or vocation."
Fact	The first facet of the argument turns upon the question whether the estate duty paid by the assessee is an expendi- ture incurred by it within the meaning of the said provision.
Statute	Under s. 5 of the Estate Duty Act the property of every person dying after the commencement of the said Act shall be liable to a duty called "estate duty" at the rates fixed in accordance with s. 35 thereof.
Statute	Under s. 21 of the said Act there shall not be included in the property passing on  the death of the deceased, inter alia, movable property situated outside the territories to which the said Act extends at the time of the death of the person.
Statute	Under s. 53 of the said Act, where any property passes on the death of the deceased, every legal representative to whom such property so passes for any beneficial interest in possession or in whom any interest in the property so passing is at any time vested and others mentioned in the section shall be accountable for the whole of the estate duty on the property passing on the death.
Statute	Section 84 thereof is aimed to reach the property of a member of a company dying outside India: the section before amendment read:  Section 84 .
Statute	Company to furnish particulars of deceased inemberrs to the Controller-  Where a company incorporated outside India carried on business in the territories to which this Act extends and has been, treated for the purposes of the Indian income-tax Act, 1922 (Xi of 1922),as resident for two out of three completed assessments immediatel y preceding, such company shall, within three months of the receipt of intimation of the death of a member dying after the commencement of this Act, fur- nish to the Controller such particulars as may be prescribed in respect of the shares of the deceased member in the company, and shall be liable to pay estate duty at the rates mentioned in Part III of the Second Schedule, on the principal value of the shares held by the deceased in the company except in cases where the deceased member was a person domiciled in India and the person accountable has obtained a certificate from the Controller showing that either the estate duty in respect thereof has been paid or will be paid or that none is due, as the case may be."
Fact	Under this section in the circumstances mentioned therein a company is liable to pay estate duty in respect of the shares of the deceased member of the company on the princi- pal value of the share held by the deceased in the company: under this section a statutory obligation is imposed on the com pany to pay the estate duty on the shares of a deceased non-resident member.
Fact	If such a member of the company had died in India, subject to the conditions mentioned in the section, the company would not be liable to pay the estate duty payable on the shares held by the deceased.
Fact	In substance the company is made a statutory agent to pay the said duty payable in respect of property belonging to another.
Statute	Section 77 of the Estate Duty Act enables a person authorised or required to pay estate duty in respect of any property to transfer the said property for the purpose of paying the duty.
Statute	This section cannot have extra-territorial operation.
Statute	Prima facie the company cannot transfer the shares or the property of a person domiciled in a country outside India.
Statute	Nor sub-s. (2) of s. 77 , which says that a person having an interest in any property, who pays the estate duty in respect of that property, shall be entitled to the like charge, as the estate duty in respect of that property had been raised by means of a mortgag e to him, has application, for it cannot be said that the company has any legal interest in the shares owned by a third party.
RatioOfTheDecision	That apart, -the said sub-section also cannot have extra- territorial operation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nothing has been placed before us to enable us to ,.come to the conclusion whether in England, where the concerned shareholders died, the resident company could recover the amount representing the estate duty paid by it in India from the legal representatives of the deceased share- holders.
RatioOfTheDecision	We, therefore, assume that the assessee who, as a statutory agent pays to the <ORG> the estate duty, cannot recover the same from the legal representatives of the deceased non-resident shareholders.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that situation the company would be out of pocket to the extent it paid the estate duty of the said persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	We cannot, therefore, accede to the contention of the learned counsel for the appellant that the amounts paid by the assessee towards estate duty were not expenditure incurred by it, but only amounts paid by it on  account with a right to recover the same from the persons on whose behalf it paid.
RatioOfTheDecision	The next question is whether the said expenditure was expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business of the assessee within the meaning of s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act.
Statute	The crucial words of the section relevant to the present enquiry are "for the purpose of such business."
Statute	Subsection (2) cl.
Statute	(xv) is a residuary clause which provides for allowing the items of business expenditure not covered by the other clauses of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act.
Statute	Beforethe Amending Act of 1939, the language of the predecessor of this clause read thus:  " not being in the nature of capital gains incurred solely, for the purpose of earning such profits or gains."
RatioOfTheDecision	The Amending Act of 1939 substituted the present clause and made it more comprehensive by using the expression "for the purpose of such business".
RatioOfTheDecision	Some of the decisions cited at the <ORG>, both English and Indian, throw some light on the construction of the said expression and  we would, therefore, briefly notice them.
Argument	<ORG> in <ORG> v. Woodifield(1) construed a corresponding provision in the Income-tax Act of the United Kingdom, the, relevant part whereof read: "money wholly and exclusively laid out or expended for the purposes of such concern."'
Argument	There, a brewing company, which also owned licensed houses in which it carried on the business of innkeepers, incurred damages and costs to the amount of pound 1,490 on account of injuries caused to a visitor staying at one of its houses by falling in of a chimney.
Argument	<ORG> held that the damages and costs were not allowable as a deduction in computing the company's profits for income-tax purposes.
Precedent	The learned Lord Chancellor said:  "They cannot be deducted if they are mainly incidental to some other vocation, or fall on the-, (1) (1906) 5 T.C.
Precedent	215, 219, 220.
Argument	699  trader in some character other than that of a trader."
Argument	Lord <NAME>, whose dictum was the basis for some of the subsequent  decisions in that country, referring to the expression "for the purpose of trade" observed as follows:  It is not enough that the disbursement is made in the course of, or arises out of , or is connected with, the trade or is made out of the profits of the trade.
Argument	It must be made for the purpose of earning the profits."
Argument	Lord <NAME>'s definition appears to be much narrower than that of the Lord Chancellor, for the former restricts the expression to mean that the expenditure should have been made only for the purpose of earning profits.
Argument	<NAME>, J., in <NAME> v. <ORG>), noticed that the qualifictaion "for the purpose of earning profits" was a slight expansion of the words of the statute, though he ex- pressed the view that it brought out the real import of the relevant section.
Argument	<CITATION_1113996> )(2), in disallowing the deduction claimed by a company of a sum set aside for the relief of ,the invalid employees, <ORG>, applied the test whether the said expenditure incurred by the com pany was for the purpose of earning profits.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <ORG>), the court allowed a deduction in respect of sums paid by the respondent-firm in discharging the liabilities of the business outstanding at the date of the said respondent purchased the business from a third party on the ground that the said expenditure, having been incurred for the purpose of preserving the goodwill and for ensuring the continuity of supply of raw-material and labour, was wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of its business.
Precedent	After referring to earlier decisions, <ORG>, made the following observation:  Here is a payment made in the circumstances of this case in order to ensure a supply of leather for the business, a payment made in order to ensure a continuance of labour willing to be employed in this business, and payment for rent in order to ensure that the landlord's consent to assignment of the premises, of the premises in which the business was carried on, should not be re- fused .
Precedent	I find it quite impossible to say that there is no evidence to justify those findings."
Precedent	(1) 17 T.C.
Precedent	59.
Precedent	65.
Precedent	(2) (1924) 8 T.C.
Precedent	678.
Precedent	(3) (1949) 30 T.C.
Precedent	460.
Precedent	466.
Precedent	700  Here it will be noticed that the learned Judge went beyond the limited scope given by Lord <NAME> to the expression in the statute and did not confine it to the amounts spent only for earning profits, but to expenditure incurred in connec- tion with the business.
Precedent	Where a company incurred an ex- penditure in defending its title to property, it was held in <ORG>) v. <ORG>) that the said amount was spent wholly and exclu-- sively for the purpose of the company's trade and was, therefore, an allowable deduction for the purpose of com- puting the profits of the company for income-tax purposes.
RatioOfTheDecision	This decision gives a more liberal meaning to the expression "for the purpose of the trade" than that given by Lord <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	"Purpose" of the trade includes the purpose to pro- tect the assets of the company carry ing on the trade.
Argument	<ORG> resurveyed the legal position in <ORG>) v. <ORG>) in the context of the questions whether the expenditure incurred by a com- pany engaged in sugar refining in a propaganda campaign to oppose the threatened nationalization of the industry was, an admissible deduction.
Argument	Lord <NAME>, after referring to the relevant case-law and to Lord <NAME>'s formula, made the following observations:  "..........this seeems to me to be an assumption wholly unwarranted by the evidence.
Argument	There is no evidence that a transfer of the assets to a national body or authority would not destroy or adversely affect the company's business.................
Argument	It is clear on the authorities that Lord <NAME>'s formula includes expenditure for the purpose of' preventing a person from being disabled from carrying on and earning profits in the trade."
Precedent	Lord <NAME> laid down the relevant test thus:  "A general test is whether the money was spent by the person assessed in his capacit y of trader or in some other capacity-whether on the one hand the expenditure was really incidental to the trade itself or on the other hand it was mainly incidental to some other vocation or was made by the trader in some other capacity than that of trader."
Precedent	This decision also restated the two tests namely (i) that the expenditure should be for carrying on the business to earn profits in the trade, and (ii) that the expenditure shall' be incurred by the assessee in his capacity of a person (1) (1942) 10 T.T.R.
Precedent	(Suppl.)
Precedent	1, S.  (2 ) (1954) 26 I.T.R.
Precedent	195, 205, 206, 219.
RulingByLowerCourt	701  carrying on the business.
RulingByLowerCourt	Lord <ORG> in <ORG> v. Keene(1) reaffirmed the second test in the following words:  "I find, however, in <ORG> case(2) what appears to me to be a clear answer to the present appeal.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is, I think, a matter not of dictum but of decision in that case that an expense is not deductible if it falls on a trader in some character other than that of a trader.
RulingByLowerCourt	This was the ground o f the opinion of Lord <NAME>, L.C., with which Lords <NAME> and <NAME> agreed.
Precedent	Their Lordships held that the expense there in question fell upon the appellants in their character not of traders but of householders."
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <ORG>), the question was whether a brewery company, which was owner and lessee of a number of licensed premises where business was carried on on the tide-house basis, was entitled to deduct for the purposes of income tax its liability in respect of compensation fund charges under the, Licensing Act, 1904.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was contended by the <ORG> that the liability to which the <ORG> became subject was in its capacity as landlord of the property and not as trader carrying on the trade of brewer.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the case ultimately came up before <ORG>, the <ORG> was equally divided.
RatioOfTheDecision	The view of two of the members who agreed with the view of <ORG> prevailed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The basis of the judgment was that the liability was wholly and exclusively related to the carry ing on of the company's business, because on the facts of that case the company had assumed the position of landlord for the purpose of its trade.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the finding was that the company paid the tax in its capacity as landlord as opined by the learned Lords who dissented, the result would have been the other way.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <ORG> v. <NAME> (H.M.
Fact	Inspector of Taxes)(4), <ORG>, covered the entire ground over again in the context of a question whether the appellant-company therein which was incorporated and resident in the United Kingdom and carrying on the business of a large general stores in Buenos Aires, having paid in Argentina a tax known as the "substitute tax" to which it was liable, could claim deduction under the Income-tax Act , 1952 (15 and 16 Geo.
Fact	VI and 1 Eliz.
Precedent	1, c. 10, s.137 (a)).
Precedent	The learned judge held on the facts of that case (1) (1947) 30 T.C.
Precedent	298, 316.
Precedent	(2) (1905) 5 T.C.
Precedent	215.
Precedent	(3) (1910) 5 T.C.
Precedent	568.
Precedent	(4) Appeal No.
Precedent	2048 (Ch.
Precedent	D.) decided on 25th March, 1963 (unreported).
RatioOfTheDecision	702  that incurring liability for that tax was a pre-condition of the <ORG>'s earning profits in the Argentina, for without incurring liability for that tax the <ORG> could not carry on business in the Argentina at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	On that finding the learned Judge came to conclusion that it was a liability which the <ORG> had undertaken for the purpose of its trade, and was, therefore, a payment made wholly and ex- clusively for the purpose of the company's trade.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be seen that in that case the tax was paid by the <ORG> in its capacity as company doing business and unless that tax was paid the company could not carry on its business.
RatioOfTheDecision	The two tests laid down are satisfied.
RatioOfTheDecision	Pausing here, we shall briefly recapitulate the legal posi- tion in England.
RatioOfTheDecision	The relevant wordings of section with which the English Judges were concerned are, in effect, similar to the terms of s. 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.
Fact	The test laid down by Lord <NAME> in Strong and <ORG> of Ramsey, Ltd. v. Woodifield(1), <NAME> y, the disbursement must be made for the purpose of earning profits, has been accepted and followed throughout, though the content of that test has been expanded to meet diverse situations.
Precedent	Broadly, the English courts applied two tests to ascertain whether a deduction was permissible or not, namely.
Precedent	(i) whether the expenditure was incurred for the purpose of carrying on of the business and for removing obstacles and impediments in the conduct of the business, and (ii) whether the assessee paid the amount in his capacity as businessman or in his personal capacity.
Precedent	Now coming to the Indian decisions, <ORG> of <ORG> in <CITATION_501977> (2 ) held that the share of bonus voluntarily paid by a company, which held the managing agency of another company, to some of the officers of the managed company was a permissible deduction under s.10(2)(xv) of the Act.
Precedent	The reason for the conclusion is stated thus:  "But having considered the whole case and the question submitted to us I am satisfied t hat looking purely at it from the point of view of commercial principles what the assessee company has done is something which had as its object increasing the profits of <ORG> nd thereby increasing its own share of the commission."
Precedent	(1) (1906) 5 T.C.
Precedent	215.
Precedent	(2) (1950) 18 I.T.R.
Precedent	460, 472.
Precedent	703  <CITATION_866820> (1), where the agent of the assessee misappropriated his money and the assessee claimed the part of the amount misappropriated and not recovered from the agent as a deduction under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act for the purpose of income-tax, this Court held that it was not allowable under s. 10(2)(xi) or s.10(2)(xv) of the Act.
Precedent	<NAME> observed :  "The result is that when a claim is made for a deduction for which there is no specific provision in section 10(2) , whether it is admissible or not will depend, on whether having regard to accepted commercial practice and trading principles, it can be said to arise out of the carrying on of the business and to be incidental to  it."
Precedent	This decision, though not direct in point, lays down the principle that an expenditure can be deducted only if it arises out of the carrying on of the business and is incidental to it.
Precedent	<CITATION_159485> .
Precedent	(2), this Court held that s. 10(2) (xv) of the Act enacted affirmatively what was stated in the negative form in the English statute and was substantially in pari materia with the English enactment and the courts might consider the English authorities as aids to the interpretation thereof.
Precedent	The decision of this Court in <CITATION_523634> (3), though, turns upon the provisions of s. 10(1) of the Act, gives some assistance in deciding the question raised.
Precedent	One of the questions raised was whether the tax paid by the assessee-firm as an agent of the non-resident principle could be claimed as a bad debt or a trading loss.
Precedent	In the words of <ORG>, "the loss which the appellant has incurred is not in its own business but the liability arose because of the business of another person and that is not permissible  deduction within s. 10(1) of the Act".
Precedent	It is true that this decision did not arise under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act, but the principle that the expenditure incurred by the assessee in his capacity as agent of another is not a deductible item equally applies to the present case.
Precedent	This <ORG> in The Commissioner of Income tax, <CITATION_739996> (1) had to consider the question whether an expenditure incurred by a race club for the purpose of training jockeys of the club was an allowable deduction within the meaning of s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act.
Precedent	(1)  S.C.R.
Precedent	690.
Precedent	(2) (1959) 37 I.T.R.
Precedent	66.
Precedent	(3) [1961] 2 S.C.R.
Precedent	949.
Precedent	(4) [1961] 2 S.C.R.
Precedent	729, 735-736.
Argument	704  <NAME>,j., speaking for the <ORG> , after considering the relevant decisions, concluded thus:  "Applying the law, as laid down in those cases, to the present case the conclusion is that the amountn dispute was laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the respondent's business because if the supply of jockeys of efficiency and skill failed the business of the r espondent would no longer be possible.
Fact	Thus the money was spent for the preservation of the respondent's business."
Fact	This decision gives a liberal interpretation to the relevant expression.
Fact	-In M/s.
Argument	<NAME> and <ORG> The Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay City II(1), this <ORG> disallowed deduction of the amount paid by a firm as penalty to release the consignment confiscated by the <ORG> authorities.
Argument	In coming to the conclusion, <NAME>, J., speaking for the <ORG>, observed:  have been construed in <ORG> v. <ORG>) to mean "for the purpose of keeping the trade" going and of making it pay.,, After considering the relevant decisions, the learned Judge proceeded to state thus:  "They cannot be deducted it they fall on the assessee in some character other than that of a trader.
Argument	Therefore, where a penalty is incurred for the contravention of any specific statutory provision, it cannot be said to be a commercial loss falling on the assessee as a trader the test being  that the expenses which are for the purpose of enabling a person to carry on trade for making profits in the business are permitted but not if they are merely connected with the business."
RatioOfTheDecision	No doubt this judgment is really based upon the fact that an expense which is paid by way of penalty for breach of law cannot be said to be an amount wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the business; but the observations in the decision go further and indicate that the expenditure, if incurred by the trader in some character other than that of a ,trader, is not an allowable deduction.
Fact	(1) [1961] 2 S.C.R.
Fact	651, 657, 663.
Fact	(2) [(1925] 12 T.C.
Precedent	803.
Precedent	813.
Precedent	705  The expression "for the purpose of the business" is wider in scope than the expression "for the purpose of earning profits".
Precedent	Its range is wide: it may take in not only the day to day running of a business but also the rationalization of its administration and modernization of its machinery; it may include measure for the preservation of the business and for  the protection of its assets and property from expropriation, coercive process or assertion of hostile titles; it may also comprehend payment of statutory dues and taxes imposed as a pre-condition to commence or for carrying on of a business; it may comprehend many other acts incidental to the carrying on of a business.
RatioOfTheDecision	However wide the meaning of the expression may be, its limits are implicit in it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The purpose shall be for the purpose of the business, that is to say, the expenditure incurred shall be for carrying on of the business and the assessee shall incur it in his capacity as a person carrying on the business.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot include sums spent by the assessee as agent of a third party, whether the origin of the agency is voluntary or statutory; in that event, he pays the amount on behalf of another and for a purpose unconnected with the business.
Fact	In the present case, the company, as a statutory agent of the deceased owners of the shares, paid the sums payable by the legal representatives of the deceased s hareholders.
RatioOfTheDecision	The payments have nothing to do with the conduct of the business.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact that on his default, if any, in the payment of the dues the <ORG> may realise the amounts from the business assets is a conse- quence of the default of the assessee in not discharging his statutory obligation, but it does not make the expenditure any the more expenditure incurred in the conduct of the business.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is manifest that the amounts in question were paid by the assessee as a statutory agent to discharge a statutory duty unconnected with the business, though the occasion for the imposition arose because of the territorial nexus afforded by the accident of its doing business in India.
RulingByPresentCourt	We, therefore, hold that the estate duty paid by the respondent was not an allowable deduction under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act.
RulingByPresentCourt	We answer the question in the negative.
RulingByPresentCourt	The order of <ORG> is wrong and is set aside.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result, the appeals are allowed with costs.
RulingByPresentCourt	One set of hearing fees.
RulingByPresentCourt	Appeal allowed
