Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This is an appeal from a judgment of the Subordinate Judge of Burdwan whereby he affirmed a decision of the <NAME> of the third Court at Burdwan.
Fact	2.
Fact	The facts out of which these proceedings arose are stated by the learned <NAME> in the early part of the judgment which he gave on January 15, 1934.
Fact	3.
Fact	The present appellant <NAME> had made an application under Section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Fact	The present respondent <NAME> had obtained a decree against the appellant for a certain sum for rent.
Fact	The decree was dated July 26, 1930, and that decree was put to execution, and proceedings which were described as Rent Execution Case No.
Fact	252 of 1930 in the Court of the <NAME> at Burdwan, were started.
Fact	Subsequently, on August 13, 1930, there was an agreement between the parties as to the method in which the decree was to be satisfied, or to put the matter in another way, there was an adjustment of the decree.
Fact	By that agreement the amount due under the decree was made  payable by certain instalments, and there was a provision in the agreement, for payment of interest at a certain rate.
Fact	It also contained a provision that if the judgment-debtor failed to pay any instalment in proper time, the decree-holder would be entitled to realise the whole amount by means of execution proceedings.
Fact	4.
Fact	In June, 1931, there were further proceedings in execution which were described as Rent Execution Case No.
Fact	305 of 1930.
Fact	That case was disposed of on June 20, 1931.
Fact	There were further execution proceedings being Rent Execution Case No.
Fact	53 of 1933, which were disposed of on July 25, 1933.
Fact	In those proceedings the judgment-debtor filed an objection which was heard as Miscellaneous Case No.
Fact	39 of 1935, and finally the present proceedings were started on August 9, 1933.
Argument	5.
Argument	At the hearing before the 3rd <NAME> at Burdwan, the applicant, that is to say the judgment-debtor contended that me present execution petition was barred by limitation and also by res judicata and that the solenama (or adjus tment) which had been made in Rent Execution Case No.
Argument	252 of 1930 was not a part of the decree, and it was not legal, or valid or binding on the parties.
Argument	It was further contended that the solenama was at the most a mere contract which could not be enforced in execution proceedings, but could only be enforced by means of a regular suit.
Argument	The learned <NAME> said in his judgment:  It appears that the rent decree passed on July, 26, 1930, was completely superseded by a solenama on August, 13, 1930.
Argument	It further appears that the old rent decree being non-existent, was found not capable of execution.
Argument	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	Then follows this very important observation:  In the present execution case the decree-holder seeks to execute the solenama or the adjusted decree and not the superseded decree which has been extinguished by virtue of the solenama or adjustment.
RatioOfTheDecision	7.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is obvious that there are no real merits in this case as regards the attitude adopted by the judgment-debtor or on the contentions pat forward on his behalf.
Argument	It appear s that at the time when the solenama was entered into, that is to say on August 13, 1930, a sum of Rs.
Argument	61 was paid by the judgment-debtor to <NAME>cree-holder, and after that nothing more whatever was paid and so on August 9, 1933, the present proceedings were instituted.
Precedent	The learned <NAME> came to the following conclusion:  The solenama although it is an agreement, is binding upon the parties and is executable as a decree without recourse to any suit.
Precedent	8.
Precedent	Then he said:  The period of limitation will run from the date of adjustment.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	In support of that view he relied upon a decision of this <ORG> in <NAME> v. <NAME> .
Precedent	10.
Precedent	The Subordinate Judge on all material points agreed with the view taken by the learned <NAME>, and he seems to have come to the conclusion that:  In the present case the <ORG> varied <NAME>cree by noting the instalments in the Suit Register.
Precedent	11.
Precedent	In the concluding paragraph of his judgment the learned Subordinate Judge said:  The last execution in which <NAME> cree-holder was trying to execute the original decree gave rise to an objection case by the appellant who contended that after the adjustment the original decree was no longer executable.
Precedent	The <ORG> accepted that contention and nobody appealed against that order.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	We have been invited by Mr. <NAME> on behalf of the appellants before us to come to the exclusion that the decision of.
Precedent	Mr. Justice <NAME> and Mr. Justice <NAME> in the case I have just mentioned is no good law.
Precedent	In that case it was held that since the parties, by agreement, can arrange their own procedure and give jurisdiction to the <ORG> to adopt that procedure, and since the parties agreed that the money due should be realised by execution, the <ORG>-had jurisdiction to proceed by way of execution.
Precedent	That decision is based on a number of cases, notably the following: <NAME> v. Attorney-General for Gibraltar (1874) 5 PC 516 : 22 WR 900 : 30 LT 729, <NAME> v. <NAME> 2 IA 219 : 24 WR 193 : 3 Sar.
Precedent	519 : 15 BLR 383 : 3  Suth.
Precedent	PCJ 190 (PC), <NAME> v. <NAME> 20 C 22 and <NAME> v. <NAME> 11 A 228 : AWN 1889, 53.
Precedent	13.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are, however, a number of authorities, chiefly it is true, in other <ORG> and one or two in this <ORG>, in which a contrary view has been taken and in my opinion it is extremely doubtful whether the proposition laid down in the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (supra) is really good law.
RatioOfTheDecision	If in the present circumstances it was simply a question of our having to decide that whether in any circumstances it is possible for an agreement between the parties to supersede a decree of the <ORG> and then to put it to execution as if it were itself a decree, it would be extremely difficult to hold that the parties can by an agreement substitute as it were a fresh decree in place of the original decree, or even vary the terms of the original decree.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, however, it is not necessary that we should decide that point, because in the present insta nce we are disposed to hold on the authority of a decision of the Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in <CITATION_1434001> .
RatioOfTheDecision	in which a number of previous decisions were considered and reviewed, that in the circumstances of this case it was not open to the parties to extend by their agreement, the period of limitation laid down as applicable to execution matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	If in the present case the decree-holder had sought to put to execution the solenama within a period of three years from the date of the original decree then it would have been necessary to decide whether we ought to follow the judgment of Mr. Justice <NAME> and Mr. Justice <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	But in the present instance it is clear from the dates that the present execution proceedings were instituted at a time when more than three years had elapsed from the date of the original decree.
RatioOfTheDecision	The original decree was made on July 26, 1930, and these proceedings were instituted in August, 1933, so that whether the matter falls within the provisions of the o rdinary law of limitation or under the provisions of the Bengal Tenancy Act, it was outside the period prescribed.
RatioOfTheDecision	14.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances while deprecating the attitude and action taken up by the judgment-debtor, we find ourselves forced to the conclusion that the decree-holder had lost whatever rights he possessed so far as enforcing her claim in execution proceedings.
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
RulingByPresentCourt	In that view of the matter we come to the conclusion that this appeal must be allowed.
RulingByPresentCourt	But having regard to the circumstances we make no order as to costs.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	I agree with my learned brother that this appeal should be allowed.
Precedent	17.
Precedent	It was a rent decree obtained on July 26, 1920.
Precedent	In the first execution case there was an adjustment between the parties on August 13, 1930, by which the judgment-debtor agreed to pay the decretal amount by cert in instalments.
Precedent	The instalments not being paid, the decree-holder instituted a further execution case which the judgment-debtor opposed on.
Precedent	the ground that the decree had been supe rseded by the subsequent agreement.
Precedent	The <ORG> accepted the judgment-debtor's plea and dismissed the execution petition.
Precedent	Thereafter the decree-holder instituted the present execution case on August 9, 1933, asking execution of the agreement of August 13, 1930.
Precedent	Both the <ORG>s below held on the authority of the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> , that an agreement which superseded the original decree is executable as a decree.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	Having regard to the various decisions of this <ORG> and of other High <ORG>s which have been cited before us, the question in my opinion in not free from difficulty, but it is, as my learned brother stated, not necessary to decide the question in this case.
Precedent	It is clear having regard to the provisions of Article 6 of Schedule Ill of the Bengal Tenancy Act, which limits the life of a rent decree to three years, that the present decree was barred on August 9, 1933 when the execution case was instituted.
Precedent	19.
RulingByPresentCourt	I agree that the appeal should be allowed, and having regar d to the conduct of the judgment-debtor no cost should be allowed to him.
