Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, <NAME>.
Fact	The suit which gives rise to these consolidated appeals was brought in <ORG> in its original civil jurisdiction, under the provisions of section 539 of Act XIV of 1882, for the appointment of trustees and the settlement of a scheme of management in respect of a moique, situated in the city of Rangoon.
Fact	The plaintiffs in the action are five Mahommedan worshippers at the mosque, who trace their origin to a place called Rander, said to be a suburb of the city of Surat in the Bombay Presidency, and in the earlier stages of these proceedings they appear to have claimed it as a Randeria mosque.
Fact	It is, however, conceded now that it is a public mosque dedicated to the performance of religious worship by all Sunni Mahommedans without restriction as to place of origin, and that it is commonly known as <ORG>.
Fact	2.
Fact	To explain the contest between the parties it is necessary to give a short summary of the circumstances that have led to this unfortunate litig ation.
Fact	Like many other places in Burma> Rangoon is inhabited by a large number of Mahommedan emigrants from various parts of India who have domiciled themselves in the country for purposes of trade, and are generally known by the names of the towns or villages whence they originally came.
Fact	For example, the plaintiffs, as already stated, derive their origin from Rander and, therefore, call themselves Randerias; whilst the larger community of Suratis or Soortees come either from the city or district of Surat.
Fact	It is necessary to bear this in mind, as the mosque in question is sometimes called the Surati mosque.
Fact	The Randerias, though trying to differentiate themselves from the others, form in reality a section of the Surati community.
Fact	They are mostly Voras, and they all profess the Sunni doctrines.
Fact	3.
Fact	It appears that the site of the present mosque was formerly occupied by a bamboo structure built in 1854 by one <NAME>, a native of Rander.
Fact	it was dedicated to the same purpose, and bore the same name as the  present masonry mosque.
Fact	Divine worship was performed here by all Sunni Mahommedans until it was burnt down three years later, when <NAME> replaced it with a building made of wooden planks.
Fact	This continued to be the public place of worship until 1872, when the masonry mosque was erected.
Fact	4.
Fact	The land on which the mosque was first built appears to have been afterwards added to by purchases made by <NAME> or by his fellow-townsmen, who made the same over to him as the custodian of the mosque.
Fact	In 1862 one <NAME>, a brother of <NAME>, and two persons of the names of <NAME> and <NAME>, obtained from the Government a grant in respect of certain other plots on the express trust " to build and maintain thereon a mosque or place of worship for and to the use of all persons professing the Sunni sect of the Mahommedan religion."
Fact	5.
Fact	These lands were also added or attached to the existing mosque, and shops were built there to yield an income for its maintenance.
Fact	6.
Fact	In 1864,  <NAME> went on a pilgrimage to Mecca, leaving the management of the mosque in the hands of <NAME> and the two persons already mentioned.
Fact	He returned to Rangoon in 1866, but never resumed his management of the mosque.
Fact	At this time the person in charge was one <NAME>, who also is said to have been a native of Rander.
Fact	7.
Fact	In 1870, the <ORG>, finding that no mosque had been built on the lands granted in 1862, and that on the contrary shops had been erected thereon, issued a notice on the grantees to show cause why those lands should not be resumed.
Fact	A meeting was thereupon held, apparently at the instance of the Randerias, of all the Sunni Mahommedans entitled to worship at the mosque, and it was decided to buy outright from the <ORG> the land, and build on it a proper masonry structure suitable to the growing needs of the community.
Fact	Although there is some dispute with regard to the contributions of the general body of Sunnis apart from the Randerias, it may be taken as fa irly uncontroverted that the bulk of the fund was subscribed by the Randeria section of the worshippers.
Fact	The conveyance was taken in the names of five persons, named respectively <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>', <NAME> and <NAME>, and these men in 1872, whilst the masonry mosque was in course of building, purported to create anew dedication.
Fact	8.
Fact	The trust deed bears date the 16th March, 1872, and after reciting that it was made between the persons named above, of the one part, and one <NAME>, representing the general Sunni Mussulman community, of the other part, proceeds to declare that " the pieces or parcels of land upon a certain portion of which <ORG> is erected or is in the course of being built, together with the godowns attached thereto, are solely dedicated for the purpose of divine worship."
Fact	It then goes on to provide inter alia that its management shall remain exclusively in the hands of the Randeria Jamaet (people or assembly.)
Fact	9.
Fact	The five persons in whose na mes the conveyance stood and who had executed the trust deed appear to have carried on the management for several years; in course of time some dropped out and others came in as trustees, How these men were placed in charge of the management of the mosque is not clear, for apparently no meeting of <ORG> was held until 1894, and none between 1894 and 1906, nor in fact had the <ORG> any "organised association" with written rules for the purpose of giving effect to the wishes of their section of the community.
Fact	10.
Fact	Matters remained in this condition until 1908, when disputes arose regarding the validity of the election of one <NAME> as a trustee in place of another Randeria, who had died the year before.
Fact	It was in consequence of the quarrels among the <ORG> themselves in connection with the election or appointment of this man, that the present suit was launched in <ORG>.
Fact	The original defendants to the action were four persons who were actually managin g the mosque as trustees, but the validity of whose appointment as such was impugned by the plaintiffs.
Fact	In addition three others were joined as defendants ostensibly to represent the Randeria section, but in reality, as the trustee defendants charge, to represent the plaintiffs' faction.
Fact	11.
Fact	On the institution of the suit notices were issued by the <ORG> under section 30 of the Civil Procedure Code to all persons entitled to worship at the mosque.
Fact	Thereupon defendants 12 and 13, representing the general body of Sunni worshippers, and defendants 8 to n claiming to represent the Surati community, and 14 to 17 the other Randerias appeared and applied to be joined as parties.
Fact	Each set of defendants has filed a separate defence.
Argument	Although the trustee defendants deny the plaintiffs' allegation that the mosque in question is a Randeria mosque, and affirm the validity of their and <NAME> appointment as trustees, they associate themselves with the plaintiffs and their Fanderia co-defendants in claiming th at the right of management of the mosque belongs exclusively to their party.
Argument	And they ask that the scheme, if any is to be framed, should be framed on that asis.
Argument	12.
Argument	The defendants 12 and 13, who represent the general body of worshippers, controvert in substance the right of the Randerias to a monopoly of the management as opposed to the whole nature of the trust j and they claim that as the mosque is dedicated to the performance of public worship by all Mahommedans of the Sunni persuasion, now that a scheme is proposed to be settled under the direction of the <ORG> they should be allowed a voice in its administration.
Argument	13.
Fact	The suit proceeded to trial before Mr. Justice <NAME>, and the whole dispute centred round two points, viz:-  1.
Fact	The effect of the trust deed of 1872, and  2.
Fact	Whether the Randerias should or should not have the sole and exclusive charge and management of the mosque.
Argument	14.
Argument	The Randerias rested their case on the trust deed of 1872; they contended that it created a new trust and that the fo unders, namely, the five persons in whose 'names the land had been purchased from the Government, were entitled to provide that the management should remain, exclusively in the hands of their own section of the community.
Argument	The learned trial Judge states their contentions in the following terms;-  It is urged that the original mosque was created by a Randeria; that the original grant was revoked and the lands sold outright to Randerias, that they thus became the creators of the trust and were at liberty to make any lawful condition they pleased as to the management of the trust.
Argument	15.
Argument	And his decision is expressed in these words;-  The position in 1871, then, was that the five vendees became the absolute and untrammelled owners of these two plots and could do with them as they pleased ...
Fact	They became the owners of the mosque, shops and lands, and created a trust of them.
Argument	It was undoubtedly open to them to manage the trust themselves or to lay down the manner in which it was to be managed and this they did in Exh <NAME>  16.
Argument	He accordingly came to the conclusion that the Randeria party were exclusively entitled to the management of the mosque.
Argument	17.
Argument	On appeal by the respondents in the first and second appeals respectively, the learned Judges of <ORG>, differing from the Trial Judge, held in substance that the lands which were purchased by or in the names of the five persons in 1871 were acquired by them as trustees for the purposes of the existing mosque and subject to the trust therefor; and that nothing that took place in 1871 or 1872 had the effect of cancelling, or could in law cancel, the original trust; and that as the original trust was for the benefit of all persons " professing the Sunni sect of the Mahommedan religion," they thought that " all Sunni Mahommedans were entitled to a voice and control of <NAME> of Rangoon."
Argument	18.
Argument	The plaintiffs and the trustee defendants have appealed to <NAME>, and the same contention that was put forward in the Courts below, based on the docu ment of 1872, has been urged on their behalf.
Argument	It has further been contended that under the Mahommedan law the <ORG> has no discretion in the matter and that it must give effect to the rule laid down by the founder in all matters relating to the appointment and succession of trustees or mutwallees.
Argument	Their Lordships cannot help thinking that the extreme proposition urged on behalf of the appellants is based on a misconception.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Mussulman law like the English law draws a wide distinction between public and private trusts.
RatioOfTheDecision	Generally speaking, in case of a wakf or trust created for specific individuals or a determinate body Of individuals, the Kazi, whose place in the British Indian system is taken by the Civil <ORG>, has in carrying the trust into execution to give effect so far as possible to the expressed wishes of the founder.
RatioOfTheDecision	With respect, however, to public religious or charitable trusts, of which a public mosque is a common and well-known example, the Kazi's discretion is very wide.
Argument	He may not depart from  the intentions of the founder or from any rule fixed by him as to the objects of the benefaction; but as regards management which must be governed by circumstances he has complete discretion.
Argument	He may defer to the wishes of the founder so far as they are conformable to changed conditions and circumstances, but his primary duty is to consider the interests of the general body of the public for whose benefit the trust is created.
Argument	He may in his judicial -discretion vary any rule of management which he may find either not practicable or not in the best interests of the institution.
Argument	19.
Argument	Illustrations of this rule are to be found in almost every work on <NAME> law.
Argument	And the authorities lay down that, '' were the wakif (the founder) to make a condition that the King or <NAME> should not interfere in the management of the <ORG>, still the Kizi will have his superintendence over it, for his supervision is above everything."
Argument	20.
Argument	Their Lordships agree with <ORG> that the transactions which took place in 1871 a nd 1872 in no way affected the existing trust, and that the trust deed of 1872 did not create a new dedication; the mosque remained as heretofore a public mosque, dedicated to the performance of worship by all Sunni Mahommedans as originally founded.
Argument	21.
Argument	In their Lordships' opinion, the real point in issue in the case, owing probably to the nature of the pleadings, has to some extent been missed by the <ORG>s in India.
Argument	It has been treated as a question involving the determination of conflicting rights rather than a consideration of the best method for fully and effectively carrying out the purpose for which the trust was created.
Argument	The suit is brought under section 539 of the Code, which vests a very wide discretion in the <ORG>.
Argument	It declares (omitting the parts not material to this case) that-  whenever the direction of the <ORG> is deemed necessary for the administration of any express or constructive trust created for public, charitable, or religious purposes, the Advocate-General, acting ex officio, or two  or more persons having a direct interest in the trust and having obtained the consent in writing of the Advocate General, may institute a suit in <ORG>, or <ORG> within the local limits of whose civil jurisdiction the whole or any part of the subject matter of the trust is situate, to obtain a decree-  (a) appointing new trustees under the trust;  (e) settling a scheme for its management;  or granting such further or other relief as the nature of the case may require.
Precedent	22.
Precedent	In giving effect to the provisions of the section and in appointing new trustees and fettling a scheme, the <ORG> is entitled to take into consideration not merely the wishes of the founder, so far as they can be ascertained, but also the past history of the institution, and the way in which the management has been carried on heretofore, in conjunction with other existing conditions that may have grown up since its foundation.
Precedent	It has also the power of giving any directions and laying down any rules which might facilita te the work of management, and, if necessary, the appointment of trustees in the future.
Precedent	23.
Argument	In the present case, <NAME>, although he was assisted by several of his compatriots in acquiring the land on which the bamboo mosque was built, was to all intents and purposes its original founder; in 1857, when the bamboo structure was burned down, he.
Argument	replaced it with a plank building; he and his Kanderia fellow-townsmen held the mutwalleeship until 1871.
Argument	Since that date also the management has been carried on by people belonging to <NAME>.
Argument	In 1862, the lands were purchased with money supplied by them; and in 1871 the bulk of the money appears to have come from the same source.
Argument	It is not alleged-that they have mismanaged the trust or committed any dereliction of duty, or tried to introduce innovations in the services, or otherwise interfered with the rights of the general body of worshippers.
Precedent	In these circumstances it seems to their Lordships, in the exercise of the discretion which the <NAME> law vests i n the Kazi, that the Randeria section of the worshippers, all other conditions being equal, are preferably entitled to the mutwalleeship of the mosque.
Precedent	With regard to the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1908) L.R.
Precedent	35 I.
Precedent	A.
Precedent	151, which has been relied upon on behalf of the respondents, their Lordships deem it sufficient to say that the facts to which they have referred differentiate it -widely from the present case.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	The present case, however, in their Lordships' opinion, illustrates the mischief of leaving the power of appointing or electing trustees in the hands of an indeterminate and necessarily fluctuating body of people, whether they call themselves Punchayet or Jamaet. '
Precedent	In order to avoid so far as possible a recurrence of the trouble that has brought about this long-drawn litigation, their Lordships think it desirable, in the interests of the institution which form the primary matter for consideration, that the appointment of future trustees should be entrusted to a committee of  the worshippers the composition of which should be in the discretion of the Judge, with due regard to local conditions and needs, subject to the provision that, so long as circumstances do not vary, a majority of such committee should be Randerias; and that in settling the scheme the Judge should lay down rules for their guidance in the discharge of any supervisitorial functions that it may appear necessary to confide to them and for filling up vacancies on their body subject to his control,  25.
Precedent	Their Lordships are accordingly of opinion that the orders of <ORG> should be discharged and that the case should be remitted with the following declaration and directions to <ORG> Lower Burma to deal finally with the matter: That all other conditions being equal, the Randeria section of the worshippers are preferably entitled to manage and act as trustees of the Sunni Juma Musjid of Rangoon; that the appointment of future trustees should be entrusted to a committee of the worshippers, the  composition of which committee should be in the discretion of the <ORG>, with due regard to local needs and conditions, subject to the provision that, so long as circumstances do not vary, a majority of such committee should be Randerias; and that in settling the scheme the <ORG> should lay down rules for the guidance of the committee in the discharge of any supervisorial functions that it may appear necessary to confide to them, and for filling up vacancies on their body subject to its control.
Precedent	26.
Precedent	As regards the costs in the <ORG>s below, the trustee-defendants will have their costs out of the funds of the institution; the rest of the parties will bear their own costs.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	The parties will bear their own costs of these appeals.
Precedent	28.
RulingByPresentCourt	And their Lordships will humbly advise His Majesty accordingly.
