Fact	JUDGMENT Madhavan Nair, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	The plaintiff is the appellant.
Fact	The appeal arises out of a suit instituted by the plaintiff for Rs.
Fact	21,000 due on a registered mortgage bond, dated 1st August, 1913.
Fact	The sum secured by the mortgage was Rs.
Fact	5,000 and the debt was repayable in 7 years.
Fact	The mortgagors are defendants 1 to 4.
Precedent	2.
Precedent	The circumstances relating to the suit are these.
Precedent	In O.S.
Fact	No.
Fact	59 of 1919 on the file of <ORG> one <NAME>, the late <NAME> of defendants 5 and 6 and the grandfather of defendants 7 and 8, obtained a money decree against the plaintiff's mortgagors, defendants 1 to 4, on 18th October, 1919.
Fact	In E.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	150 of 1919 the decree-holder asked for attachment and sale of the suit property.
Fact	In Ex.
Fact	A, the schedule attached to this Execution Petition, the decree-holder gave a list of five encumbrances said to be existing on the property.
Fact	There is a note at the end of Ex.
Fact	A which runs as follows:  These properties ought to be sold after issue of sale proclam ation subject to the mortgage deed, dated 1st August, 1913 and executed in favour of <NAME> (the present plaintiff) for Rs.
Fact	3,000 - this is admittedly a mistake for Rs.
Fact	5,000.
Fact	Except as regards item No.
Fact	2 specified in the certificate of the Registrar, that is the mortgage deed for Rs.
Fact	3,000, the remaining items Nos.
Fact	3, 4, 5 and 6 were executed fraudulently and without any consideration whatever.
Fact	3.
Fact	A similar note appears at the end of the bidders' list also - see Ex.
Fact	A-1.
Fact	The sale of the property was fixed for 12th July, 1920, on which date the plaintiff put in a claim petition, E.A.
Fact	No.
Fact	81 of 1920 (Ex.
Fact	II), in which he stated that the suit mortgage bond of 1913 had been fully discharged by means of a registered sale deed, Ex.
Fact	I, dated 10th September, 1919, for Rs.
Fact	8,000 under which he became the absolute owner of the property and that he has been in possession and enjoyment of the same ever since the sale - see paragraph 3 of Ex.
Fact	II.
Fact	This claim petition was dismissed on 12th July, 1920, because it was  filed too late.
Fact	On the same day, the property was purchased by <NAME>, the decree-holder in O.S.
Fact	No.
Fact	59 of 1919.
Fact	Ex.
Fact	III is the sale certificate issued to him.
Fact	The plaintiff did not institute a suit to establish his right to the property within a year from the date of the order, and so the order made against him became conclusive under Order 21, Rule 63, Civil Procedure Code.
Fact	In 1923 <NAME>, the decree-holder-purchaser of the suit property, filed O.S.
Fact	No.
Fact	131 of 1923 in <ORG> for recovery of mesne profits of the lands purchased by him in <ORG> auction.
Fact	In this suit the plaintiff was the 10th defendant and he resisted it on the ground that some of the lands purchased by <NAME> were his property by virtue of the sale deed Ex.
Fact	I.
Fact	The learned District Munsif held that inasmuch as the plaintiff's claim based on the sale was dismissed and he did not bring a suit within a year to set aside the order, he lost his right wider the sale deed and was debarred from claiming ' the property any longer - Ex.
Fact	IV.
Fact	This finding was upheld on appeal by the learned Subordinate Judge - Ex.
Fact	V. Having lost his rights under the sale deed by his own default, the plaintiff instituted the present suit on 14th, October, 1926, to recover the money due under the mortgage bond, dated 1st August, 1913.
Fact	4.
Fact	The plaintiff's argument is twofold.
Argument	He argues first that the dismissal of his claim petition does not affect the suit mortgage and that, since the property was purchased by the decreeholder himself subject to the mortgage, what he purchased was only the equity of redemption and that therefore the contesting defendants are estopped from questioning the plaintiff's right as mortgagee under the suit mortgage.
Argument	Next, he argues that, since as a result of the claim petition his sale deed became ineffectual and inoperative, the Court should hold that the original mortgage to which the property was subject revived as a matter of law and that in equity he is entitled to sue on the same.
Argument	The defendants arg ue (1) that, though the property was sold subject to the mortgage, the <ORG> did not as a matter of fact decide whether the mortgage subsisted or not, and that therefore the <ORG>-purchaser of the properties and those who, claim under him are not estopped from questioning its validity; and (2) that in law and also, as will appear from the contentions of the plaintiff himself, the suit mortgage became merged in and completely extinguished by the sale deed, Ex.
Argument	I, which was valid when it was made and that therefore the plaintiff cannot invoke any equity at all in support of his contention that the suit mortgage should be enforced.
Argument	The learned District Judge overruled the contentions of the plaintiff and dismissed the suit.
Argument	5.
Argument	Dealing with the first contention of the plaintiff, it does not appear in the present case that the <ORG> made an order that the property should be sold subject to the suit mortgage.
Argument	Under Order 21, Rule 62, Civil Procedure Code, "Where the <ORG> is satisfied that the property is subject  to a mortgage or charge in favour of some person not in possession and thinks fit to continue the attachment, it may do so, subject to such mortgage or charge".
Argument	There is nothing on the record to show that the executing <ORG> decided whether the suit mortgage subsisted or not and ordered attachment and sale subject to the mortgage as required under this provision.
Argument	Under Order 21, Rule 66, "Where any property is ordered to be sold by public auction in execution of a decree, the <ORG> shall cause a proclamation of the intended sale to be made and the proclamation shall contain amongst other things the encumbrances to which the property is liable.
Argument	"The Code makes a clear distinction between a case where the property is sold subject to a mortgage asunder Order 21, Rule 62 and a case in which the notice of an alleged encumbrance is given in the proclamation of sale as under Order 21, Rule 66.
Argument	In the former case, the <ORG> is satisfied of the existence of the mortgage and sells only the judgment-debtor's equity of r edemption and the purchaser has to redeem the mortgage.
Argument	In the latter case, the purchaser buys the property with notice of the mortgage subject to such risks as the notice might involve; in other words, the executing <ORG> does not decide whether the mortgage subsists or not and the purchaser is not precluded from questioning the validity of the mortgage.
Argument	In our opinion, the present case falls within the latter class and we are confirmed in this opinion by a comparison of the proclamation of sale with Form No.
Argument	56 given in the Civil Rules of Practice.
Argument	We think that by the note appearing in the sale proclamation the decree-holder intended to give notice of the suit mortgage which he thought was prima facie valid and he gave also notice of other encumbrances which in his view were invalid.
Argument	He is therefore, not precluded from questioning the validity of the suit mortgage.
Argument	The so-called admissions of the decree-holder to the effect that the property has been sold subject to the suit mortgage, which are merely stat ements in the proclamation of sale and the bidders' list, cannot be made a ground for saying that the purchaser is liable under the mortgage unless it is proved by the plaintiff that the mortgage continued to exist in spite of the sale.
Argument	6.
Argument	The next argument of the learned Advocate-General is that the sale deed proving unavailing as a result of the order passed in claim proceedings, the mortgagee-purchaser (the plaintiff) may in equity be allowed to fall back on his mortgage.
RatioOfTheDecision	This argument cannot be accepted for two reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the first place, the facts of the case show that the plaintiff should not be allowed to invoke equity on his side and secondly, that the sale deed in spite of the order under Order 21, Rule 61, which became conclusive under Rule 63, does not become ineffective for all purposes in law.
RatioOfTheDecision	7.
RatioOfTheDecision	Ever since the sale in question the plaintiff has always been relying on the sale deed in support of his claim to the property.
Argument	In his claim petition under Order 21, Rule 58 (Ex.
Argument	II) he stated with re ference to the sale that he purchased the property under a registered sale deed, that it is supported by consideration and has been effected in partial discharge of the debt due to him under the registered mortgage bond, dated 1st August, 1913 (that is the suit bond) for Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	5,000 (see para.
RatioOfTheDecision	3).
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus his case has been that the mortgage is discharged and that it has been supplanted by the sale.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present suit also his attitude is the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is made clear in para.
RatioOfTheDecision	4 of the plaint.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the plaintiff had pleaded in the suit adopting the previous averments of the defendants that the sale was fraudulent and without consideration and if that plea had been accepted it might be possible to find that the sale was a nullity which could not extinguish the mortgage.
RatioOfTheDecision	But he has always preferred to rest his case on the sale calling it a valid one.
Precedent	There is no case of estoppel here as in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1916) I.L.R.
Precedent	39 All.
Precedent	186.
Precedent	In that case the contesting defendants maintained that the two mortgage dee ds, which were executed after the suit mortgage, were not binding on them, and then their Lordships observed that it does not appear to them "to be consistent with equity or good conscience" that they having successfully maintained that the two deeds were not binding should now claim the benefit of the transactions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The present claim of the plaintiff is in the teeth of his case in the claim petition as well as in the plaint.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion the plaintiff cannot also plead that the order under Order 21, Rule 61, Civil Procedure Code, when it became conclusive under Rule 63, operated as an order in rem and so rendered void the sale deed upon which the plaintiff had based his claim when he moved the Court under Order 21, Rule 58.
RatioOfTheDecision	The order precluded the plaintiff from proceeding upon the same cause of action against the attaching decree-holder or against the auction-purchaser whose title proceeded from the same attachment and sale, but otherwise it does not affect the validity of the sale deed; in other words, th e mortgage is not revived by operation of this order.
Precedent	In this connection we may refer to the decisions in <CITATION_1924531> (1928) I.L.R.
Precedent	52 Mad.
Precedent	465 and Chhiddu v. Sheo Mangal Singh (1928) I.L.R.
Precedent	52 Mad.
Precedent	465 relied on by the learned Advocate-General in support of his contention.
Precedent	In both these cases the subsequent transactions.
Precedent	- the settlement deed in <CITATION_1924531> (1928) I.L.R.
Precedent	52 Mad.
Precedent	465 and the two mortgage deeds in Chhiddu v. Sheo Mangal Singh (1916) I.L.R.
Precedent	39 All.
Precedent	186 - executed after the suit morrgages were found invalid and not binding on the parties executing them and then the <ORG> held that the plaintiffs were in equity entitled to fall back upon the prior mortgages.
RatioOfTheDecision	The same cannot be said with reference to the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The sale deed was a valid one when it was executed and in spite of the conclusiveness of the order under Order 21, Rule 63, as we have already pointed above, it has not become absolutely void.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is therefore no reason why the plaintiff should be allowed to fall bac k upon the previous mortgage.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion the suit mortgage which formed the consideration for the sale deed was extinguished when the sale was effected.
Precedent	Under Section 101 of the Transfer of Property Act, where the owner of a charge or other encumbrance on immoveable property is or becomes absolutely entitled to that property the charge or the encumbrance shall be extinguished unless he declares by express words or necessary implication that it shall continue to subsist or such continuance would be for his benefit.
Precedent	The effect of the execution of the sale deed must therefore be taken to be the extinguishment of the suit mortgage unless there is an express of implied intention to keep the encumbrance alive.
Precedent	No such intention has been pleaded in this case, nor can it be found on the facts.
Precedent	We must therefore hold rejecting the arguments of the appellant that the suit mortgage in this case cannot be enforced inasmuch as it has become extinguished by the-sale of the property in favour of the plaintiff for which  it formed the consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already shown that the sale deed has not been rendered void in the way contended for by the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	While rib doubt there is good authority for <ORG> in equity allowing a party when one remedy has failed to take whatever other remedy lies ready to hand, <ORG> can hardly go so far as to allow a party to revive a dead remedy merely because that best suits his convenience.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before the plaintiff can invoke equity in his favour he must show that there is a remedy available to him on which he can rely.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is precisely what he has been unable to do in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RulingByPresentCourt	For the above reasons we must hold that the appeal fails.
RulingByPresentCourt	It is dismissed with costs.
