Fact	<NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	These are consolidated appeals from two decrees of <ORG>, both dated the 13th November, 1911, which reversed in part and modified in part two decrees, each dated the 25th October, 1909, of <ORG>.
Fact	2.
Fact	The first of the two suits in which those last-mentioned decrees were made, namely, that numbered 76 of 1907, the appeal in which is No.
Fact	121 of 1913, was instituted by <NAME>, the appellant in both the present appeals to enforce a mortgage dated the 26th June, 1900, executed in his favour by the third respondent in the first appeal, namely <NAME>, in her own right, and also as guardian of her two sons, then minors, the first and second respondents in the first appeal, to secure the repayment of 20,000 rupees admittedly advanced by the mortgagee to this lady, with interest at one per cent, per mensem.
Fact	3.
Fact	The second of these suits, namely, that numbered 51 of 1908, t he appeal in which is numbered 134 of 1913, was instituted by the respondents <NAME> and <NAME>, the latter by his guardian against this same mortgagee and one Sultan <NAME>, claiming to be the stepbrother of the plaintiffs, for a declaration that a second mortgage made by the said Sultan <NAME> of his share in all the family property in this mortgagee's favour, to secure the repayment of a sum of 8,000 rupees with interest, was a nullity, on the ground that the said Sultan <NAME> was not entitled to any share in the family property, first by reason of the provisions of a certain indenture dated the 5th February, 1895, hereafter dealt with, and secondly because he was not the legitimate son of his alleged <NAME>, the grantor in the said deed.
Fact	This declaration is the only specific relief prayed for, but there is a prayerr for general relief.
Fact	4.
Fact	The litigation relates to the estate of <NAME>, who was the son of the Prime Minister of the last King of Oudh, and a  <NAME> of the Shia sect.
Fact	He was admittedly regularly married twice.
Fact	By his first wife, <NAME>, he had two sons and one daughter, who pre-deceased him, and one daughter,, <NAME>, who survived him.
Fact	By his second wife, the third respondent in the first appeal, married after the death of the first wife, he had two sons, the first and second respondents in that appeal.
Fact	He died on the 1st August, 1898.
Fact	5.
Fact	Both these suits were tried by the same Subordinate Judge, who delivered separate judgments.
Fact	<ORG> dealt with both the appeals in one judgment.
Fact	6.
Fact	The appellants and the respondents in both appeals agree in stating that the principal questions for decision are (i) whether this trust indenture of the 5th February, 1895, duly executed 3 by the deceased <NAME> and registered, was a valid disposition of the properties therein comprised, and, if so, whether the above-mentioned mortgages, so far as they purport to charge these properties, and the alleged share of Su <NAME> in the family property respectively, are invalid; and (2) whether Su<NAME> was shown to be the legitimate son of <NAME>, the grantor in the trust deed.
Fact	It was not, as their Lordships understood, disputed that the sum of 20,000 rupees, purported to be secured by the first mortgage, was, in fact, advanced to the Nawab's widow; nor that it was borrowed for the purpose of being applied in payment of certain of the settlor's debts, in order to save some of the properties comprised in the trust deed from being sold at the suit of some unsatisfied creditors; nor that it was, in fact, so applied.
Fact	No question was raised as to whether the first mortgage did not, under the circumstances, capture whatever interest the three respondents might have had in the entire immovable property of <NAME>, however derived.
Fact	Their Lordships therefore base their decision solely on the points raised by the parties and dealt with by the Courts below.
Fact	7.
Fact	It was contended in the second suit by <NAME>  <NAME>, the mortgagee, that between the dates of the marriages of the <NAME> with the two above-mentioned ladies he contracted a marriage in the muta form with an Abyssinian slave girl, named <NAME>, who had been brought home by his <NAME> on the occasion of his making a pilgrimage to Mecca and subsequently given by the <NAME> to him, and that <NAME> was the offspring of that union.
Fact	The fact that such a marriage ever took place was denied by the plaintiffs in that suit, and a vast body of evidence, oral and documentary, was adduced by both sides on the issue of <NAME>'s legitimacy.
Fact	8.
Fact	Now, as to the trust deed of the 5th February, 1895, it is necessary, in order to determine the issue raised in reference to it, to consider first, its provisions; second, the circumstances under which, and the purpose for which it was apparently executed; and thirdly, the mode in which the property purporting to be conveyed by it was subsequently treated arid dealt with by those having rights over or int erest in it.
Fact	9.
Fact	The parties to the deed are <NAME>, of the first part; <NAME>, described as his second wife, of the second part; and <NAME> and the K aforesaid <NAME>, described as trustees, of the third part.
Fact	After reciting that <NAME> was seized and possessed for an estate of inheritance in possession of certain undivided shares in certain Zemindari villages, and other landed properties in Lucknow, and in the districts of Lucknow, Fyzabad, and Sitapur, and also of a house in Calcutta numbered 13, Russell Street; that on the treaty of the marriage with his said wife, <NAME>, he had agreed to give her a dower of one lac of rupees, and also to settle upon her : a monthly allowance of 100 rupees; that in part performance of that agreement, and in satisfaction of this monthly allow" ance, he had by a registered instrument, dated the 14th October, 1887, transferred to her a certain house, described as yielding a monthly rent of 100 rupees which she ha d since enjoyed; and had, in addition, already paid to her 15,000 rupees in part payment of her dower, leaving the sum of 85,000 rupees, the balance thereof, unpaid : that he had, by gifts of jewellery and effects of the value of one lac and 50,000 rupees, and otherwise, provided for his children by his first wife; that with a view to prevent further disputes, quarrels, and litigation between his said wife, <NAME>, and her children, and the children of his first marriage, he was desirous of making the settlement thereafter appearing, it was agreed between the parties thereto that the said intended settlement 'should be in full payment and satisfaction of the dower payable by him, as therein mentioned.
Fact	He, in consideration of the promises, and in payment and discharge of the balance of the dower payable by him, granted, conveyed, and assigned to the trustees and their heirs all the lands, tenements, and hereditaments in " the schedule to the deed mentioned, to hold the same, subject to a certain mortgage there in specified, to the payment of certain small annuities to the persons therein named, and to the cost of maintaining and managing the said properties, and Collecting the rents thereof, in trust to pay the income of the same' to his said wife, <NAME>, during her life, for her sole and separate use, subject to the cost of maintaining and educating his Children by her, and after her death in trust for all the aforesaid children living at his, the settlor's, death, as tenants in common, in equal shares.
Fact	A power of leasing for a term of six years was given to the trustees, and a provision introduced that in case one of the trustees should die, or be unable or unwilling to act, <ORG> should be appointed trustees in such trustees' stead.
Fact	The deed contains, in addition, the usual covenants by the settlor for good title M and quiet enjoyment.
Fact	This deed is in the English language, It does not contain any formal release of <NAME>'s right to payment of the .unpaid balance of her dowe r. It is executed by the settlor alone.
Fact	Mr. <NAME>, his solicitor, and <NAME>, described as a solicitor, but in fact the clerk of Mr. <NAME> (to whom the mortgage mentioned in it was made), are the witnesses to it.
Fact	The lady was not examined as a witness.
Fact	No proof whatever, independent of the deed, was given that any agreement such as is mentioned in it was ever entered into between the settlor and his wife, <NAME>, to the effect that she would accept the provision purported to be made for her by it in satisfaction and discharge of her claim, for the unpaid balance of her dower.
RatioOfTheDecision	That agreement, however, is the only valuable consideration moving to the settlor given for the grant he makes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unless and until this agreement is proved to have been entered into, the grant and conveyance to the trustees must be taken to be a purely voluntary gift.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though it should be merely voluntary, <NAME> might, no doubt, acting with full knowledge of her rights, deliberately elect to take the be nefits conferred upon her by it in lieu of the balance of her dower.
RatioOfTheDecision	If she did so elect, she would be bound by the choice thus made.
RatioOfTheDecision	But that election could not create the agreement between her and her <NAME>; which is the sole consideration for the deed, nor could it enlarge the operation of the deed itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	Notwithstanding it, the grant to he trustees would still remain a purely voluntary gift, and the property which it passed would have to be ascertained on that footing.
RatioOfTheDecision	Subsequent election could not be held to be a substitute for the original consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
RatioOfTheDecision	The interests granted to the children are contingent on their surviving their <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	By the happening of that event, the class to take is to be ascertained.
RatioOfTheDecision	Children born after the date of the deed, but alive at the death of the settlor would be members of that class.
Fact	In addition, the deed fails to provide expressly or impliedly for the payment of the income of the property held in trust on each of three different contingencies.
Fact	First, the cont ingency of <NAME> dying childless in her <NAME>'s lifetime.
Fact	Second, offer predeceasing him leaving children; none of whom survived him; and, third, of her pre-deceasing him leaving children some of whom survived him.
Fact	In each of these cases a resulting trust in the settlor's favour would arise on the death of his wife.
Fact	In the first case of the absolute beneficial interest in the trust property, in the second of the income of that property while any of his children lived, and of the absolute beneficial interest in it on the death of the survivor of them, and in the third case of the income of the trust property in the interval between the death of his wife and his own decease.
Fact	So that the settlor has not by the provisions of this deed divested himself absolutely, but only in certain contingencies of all interest in the property granted and conveyed by it.
Argument	It was contended by Sir <NAME>, on behalf of the appellants, that by reason of the conditional nature of this gift to the trustees, the contingent  nature of the provision for the children, and these contingent resulting trusts in the settlor's favour, these dispositions made by the deed were void under the Mahomedan law observed by the Shia sect.
Argument	11.
RatioOfTheDecision	These are no doubt very important points.
RatioOfTheDecision	Owing, however, to the conclusions at which their Lordships have arrived on the other points raised in the case, they do not find it necessary to express any opinion on these points and, therefore, abstain from doing so.
RatioOfTheDecision	By the third section of the Oudh Laws Act (XVIII of 1876) it is enacted that between Mahomedans the Mahomedan law is to be applied to the many important matters therein enumerated, including amongst others, " wills, legacies, and gifts."
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> has held that the term "gifts" as here used does not include gifts in trust.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their Lordships cannot adopt such a narrow construction of the term ' gifts" as would exclude any gift where the donor's bounty passes to his intended beneficiary through the medium of a trust, so tha t while a gift by A. to C. direct would be governed by the Mahomedan law, a gift by A. to B. in trust for C. would be governed by some other law.
RatioOfTheDecision	So to hold would, they think, defeat the plain purpose and object of this section of the statute.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Mahomedan law in their view, therefore, applies to this deed; and the gift made by it, being voluntary, will under that law be void, unless it be accompanied by a delivery of such possession as the subject of the gilt is susceptible of.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	<CITATION_1813027> (1906) L.R.
Precedent	33 I.A.
Precedent	68 : 8 Bom.
Precedent	L.R.
Precedent	387 it is at p. 76 of the report, laid down by this <ORG> that, according to Mahomedan law, holder of property may in his lifetime give away the whole or part of it if he complies with certain forms, but that it is incumbent on those who seek to set up such a transaction to prove that those forms have been complied D with, and this will be so whether the gift be made with or without consideration.
Precedent	If the latter, then unless it be accompanied by delivery of the thing given,  so far as it is capable of delivery, it will be invalid.
Precedent	If the former, delivery of possession is not necessary, but actual payment of the consideration must be proved, and the bona fide intention of the donor to divest himself in presenti of the property, and to confer it upon the donee must also be proved.
Precedent	The case of <ORG> v. <NAME> (1876) L.R.
Precedent	3 I.A.
RatioOfTheDecision	261 supports this statement of the law.
Argument	13.
Argument	As six out of the ten hereditaments granted by the deed consist of undivided shares in certain Zemindari villages and parcels of land, physical possession is, in their case, impossible and as to them, the receipt of the appropriate portion of the rent or income issuing out of or derived from them is the only form the necessary possession could assume.
Argument	The validity of the grant of these items of property would depend, therefore, upon whether the trustees of the deed, to, the exclusion of all other persons, entered into the receipt or enjoyment of .these tents or income.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>  contended, however, as their Lordships understood him, that the rule of law laid down by those authorities was altered or qualified by the combined operation of " The Transfer of Property Act " (Act IV of 1882) and " The Indian Trusts Act " (Act II of 1882).
Argument	He insists that if the deed of gift of immovable property be duly registered, delivery of possession is not necessary to make the gift valid, or, if necessary, may be effected at any time during the donor's life, provided he be then capable of giving the property.
Statute	By section 122 of the first of these statutes a gift is defined to be a transfer of existing movable or immovable property voluntarily without consideration by one person, calling himself a donor, to another, called a donee, and accepted by or on behalf of the donee.
RatioOfTheDecision	The acceptance must be made during the lifetime of the donor, and while he is still capable of giving.
RatioOfTheDecision	,If he should die before acceptance, the gift is void.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the subject of the gift be immovable property, then, by section 123 ,  the transfer must be effected by a registered instrument, signed by or on behalf of the donor, and attested by at least two witnesses.
RatioOfTheDecision	By section 125 it is provided that a gift of a thing to two or more donees, of whom one does not accept, is void as to the interest he would have taken had he t accepted.
RatioOfTheDecision	14.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 55 enacts that, subject to the trust, the beneficiary has a right to the rents and profits of the trust property, and section 56 that where there is only one beneficiary and he is competent to contract, or where there are several beneficiaries competent to contract and all are of one mind, he or they may require the trustee to transfer the property to him or them, or to such person as he or they may direct.
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
RatioOfTheDecision	Both these statutes, however, were passed long before the year in which the first of the above-cited authorities was decided.
RatioOfTheDecision	The 22nd section of " The Transfer of Property Act " still requires a " transfer " to be made of the subject of the gift.
RatioOfTheDecision	This would prima fade mean a valid transf er, and would therefore require the transfer to be accompanied by delivery of possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it is argued that there can be no delivery without acceptance by the donee of the gift.
RatioOfTheDecision	It implies acceptance, and as acceptance may take place at any time during the donor's life, under the conditions mentioned, it follows that the required delivery of possession may take place at any time during his life under the same conditions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their Lordships think that this line of argument is unsound, but even if it were sound it is not pretended that during the life of the donor in the present case anything was done by him which would amount to delivery of possession of the pro.
Fact	parties comprised in the mortgage deed, or anything done by the trustees or by <NAME> alone, which would amount to proof of an acceptance of the gift, or of an election to take, under the deed of the 5th February, 1895, save what happened in a friendly suit instituted by the deceased <NAME> against the trustees on the 10th September, 1895, to ob tain permission to sell the Kothi, 13, Russell Street, Calcutta.
Argument	This matter will be dealt with in its chronological order,  16.
Argument	As to the circumstances under which this trust deed was executed it was contended on behalf of the appellant that the settlor was heavily indebted at its date, and that by it he purported to divest himself of almost all the property then belonging to him, that it was merely designed to protect him against the claims of ,his pressing creditors, and was never intended by him to be an operative instrument.
Fact	It is clear from the entries in the day book of Mr. <NAME>, his solicitor, that <NAME> did not, at first, intend to make any disposition in trust of the property comprised in the deed, and it is equally clear that he never intended that the deed should contain any clause releasing his wife's claim for the unpaid I balance of her dower.
Precedent	A clause to that effect was introduced by counsel into the draft sent to him to settle.
Precedent	It was a natural and proper provision if the agreement  mentioned in the deed between the settlor and his wife had ever in fact been entered into; but notwithstanding that the settlor was advised by his solicitor to allow this clause to be embodied in the deed, he absolutely declined to do so, and it was accordingly omitted from it.
Precedent	Again, while he lived no mutation of names took place as to his shares in the Zemindari villages or lands to which mutation was applicable.
Precedent	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	To some of the properties comprised in the deed mutation, no doubt, did not apply.
RatioOfTheDecision	But if this was a genuine transaction, and the deed was intended to be an operative instrument, there was no reason why the names of the trustees should not have been substituted for that of the settlor on the registry in reference to these villages, and many reasons why they should have been so substituted.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would have completed the transaction, and tended to remove all doubt about its nature.
RatioOfTheDecision	That, however, was not all.
RatioOfTheDecision	The income of the trust property was never, during the lifetime of the settlor, paid to  the trustees or to the wife.
Precedent	<NAME>, the <NAME> of <NAME>, one of the trustees, was also <NAME> of <ORG>, and at pp.
RatioOfTheDecision	370-371 of the second record he states that <NAME>, the Thekadar, made the collections; that this man sent the income of these villages to him; and that he, as such <NAME>, brought the .money to <ORG> during the latter's life.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was a direct breach of trust if the deed was an operative instrument.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
RatioOfTheDecision	These facts are, no doubt, calculated to throw grave suspicion on the genuineness of the transaction of February 1895, but they do not appear to their Lordships to be sufficiently convincing to induce them to rest their judgment upon them rather than upon other points where, in their view, there is less room for doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	19.
RatioOfTheDecision	The written statement filed by the trustees in the friendly suit above-mentioned was most relied upon.
Fact	It is dated the 16th December, 1895.
Fact	In that suit Mr. <NAME> was solicitor for <ORG>.
Fact	His partner was solic itor for the trustees.
Fact	<NAME> gave the instructions, to this gentleman.
Fact	There is no proof whatever that he ever communicated with <NAME> oh the subject  20.
Fact	The plaint is a lengthy document.
Fact	It sets out; amongst other things, the deed of the 5th February, 1895. '
Fact	The written statement of the trustees begins by admitting all the statements contained in the plaint, and then states that the defendants are trustees appointed under the deed of the 5th February, 1895, and as such hold the several tenements and hereditaments described in the schedule annexed to it .upon the trusts created' by it.
Fact	That is all as to the contents or provisions of the deed In fact, the <NAME> himself was then receiving the rents of those hereditaments and continued to do so for two years afterwards; and in the plaint it is stated the <NAME>, himself had entered into a conditional contract for the sale of the Russell Street premises for 125,000 rupees.
Fact	This written statement purports to be signed twice by each of the trustees  and signed once by their attorney, <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Over one set of the signatures of the trustees it contains the usual declaration by the defendants that the statements contained in the document are true to their knowledge, except as to matters stated on information and belief, and as to such matters they believe them to be true.
Fact	And following this is the endorsement- "Explained by me to the defendants above-named <NAME>, articled clerk to Mr. <NAME>, ' solicitor, Calcutta."
Fact	That is the <NAME>'s solicitor.
Fact	This witness was not produced, and no explanation was given for his absence.
Fact	And though <NAME> (p. 257) identifies his daughter's signature to this written statement, Exh.
Argument	No.
Argument	5, he says nothing about the document being read and explained either to himself or to her.
Argument	21.
Argument	In their Lordships' view it is impossible under these circumstances to accept this written statement as satisfactory proof that the contents, purport or effect, of this trust deed were ever brought to the knowle dge of <NAME>; that she had ever as a trustee accepted the gift purporting to be contained in it, or ever on her own behalf accepted the provision purporting to be made by it for her and her children in satisfaction of her claim for the balance of her dower.
RatioOfTheDecision	Her subsequent conduct and action up to and including the execution of the mortgage sued upon is, they think, entirely inconsistent with any such intention on her part,  22.
RatioOfTheDecision	These latter are most significant.
Fact	On the 7th September, 1898, less than six weeks after her <NAME>'s death, proceedings, to which: she was a party, were instituted to obtain mutation of names in reference to his undivided share in seven Zemindari villages.
Fact	She was presumably made aware of the nature and object of these proceedings and the purport and effect of the documents that bear her name.
Fact	If she was then aware of the existence and provisions of the trust deed, these proceedings amount, first, to a most emphatic repudiation of it; second, to a most emphatic assertion of <NAME> <NAME> legitimacy; and thirdly, a determined effort, against her own pecuniary interest, and that of her children, to confer upon him certain proprietary rights.
Fact	23.
Fact	Separate applications were made, one for each village.
RatioOfTheDecision	That dealing with the lands of <NAME> (p. 237(1)) maybe taken as typical of them all, It purports to be made under the provisions of Section 61 of Act XVII of 1876 (The Oudh Land Revenue Act).
RatioOfTheDecision	Having regard to the contention of the respondents that no weight or significance is to be attached to the statements contained in documents such as those signed by her in these proceedings, unless and until it be proved affirmatively that their contents were fully understood by her, it is essential to examine some of the provisions of this statute.
RatioOfTheDecision	By Section 6 it imposes on all persons obtaining possession of land or the profits thereof, whether by succession, purchase, or other form of transfer, a statutory duty to give notice of the same, immediately after it has taken place, to the <ORG> sildar of the Tahsil in which the Mahal to which the land belongs is situated, or to the Deputy Commissioner of the district.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the notice be given to the former that officer is bound to report to the Deputy Commissioner.
RatioOfTheDecision	By Section 62 the Deputy Commissioner, on receiving this notice, is bound to make such enquiry as the Chief Commissioner may from time to time prescribe, in order to ascertain the fact of the alleged transmission of the property, and if the transfer appears to have taken place he must, in accordance with the rules made by the Chief Commissioner, record the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	This entry, no doubt, does not prejudice the right of any person who may claim and establish in a Court of competent jurisdiction a right to an interest in the land to which the entry refers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 63 enacts that if the person succeeding be a minor or under disability, the guardian or other person who shall have charge of the property, shall give the notice, and by 3.64 a fine is imposed on any person neglecting for three months t o give the notice prescribed by Section 61-   24.
RatioOfTheDecision	These are the administrative duties of a quasi-judicial character imposed upon these public officials.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is scarcely conceivable that when the application is grounded upon the statement contained in a petition signed by a Purdanashin lady, both on behalf of herself and as guardian of her children, these officials would omit to take adequate steps to ascertain whether she knew the purport and effect of the document She signed.
RatioOfTheDecision	He would utterly fail in his duty if he omitted to do so, and in the absence of all evidence that he did fail in his duty |in this respect the maxim omnia presumuniur rete esse acta must, their Lordships think, be applied to the proceedings.
RatioOfTheDecision	25.
Fact	Now in the body of the petition it is stated that <NAME> died on the ist August, 1898, that the five persons named, beginning with <NAME>, described as his son, were his heirs.
Fact	The undivided shares of the deceased in the several villages to which these heirs became entitled are s tated, namely, two shares to each of the sons, one share to <NAME>, the surviving daughter of the first marriage, a married lady who died in the year 1904 but whose <NAME> is still alive, and one-eighth share of the entire property to <NAME>, It is further stated that on the ist August 1898, these five persons got possession of their respective shares jointly by inheritance.
Fact	As that was the date of the death of the ancestor, physical possession of an undivided share being impossible, and no rent having been received by the heirs, this can only mean that they got a right to possession by virtue of the interest in his undivided share which they took by inheritance.
Fact	These five heirs of the deceased <NAME> then pray that after due enquiry his name might be expunged, and the names of the applicants, according to their legal share's may be entered on <ORG> in his stead.
Fact	The petition purports to be signed by Sultan <NAME>, <NAME>, and <NAME>, and is e ndorsed thus: " Lochan Lal, Pleader."
Fact	Upon this application an order bearing date the 30th September, 1898, was made purporting to be signed by the Pargana officer to this effect.
Fact	In accordance with the reports of the <NAME> the mutation of names is sanctioned, Let this be returned for compliance."
Fact	26.
Fact	In addition to this, in this application relating to the village of Ghaila, Pargana Lucknow, a consolidated statement is made by the same pleader, bearing date the 28th September, 1898, setting forth the shares of the same several heirs to the <NAME>'s interest in seven villages, and at p, 81 of the Record in the <NAME>'s report, dated the 28th September, is to be found.
Fact	He reports that <NAME> Zaigham-ud-daula was a shareholder in the therein mentioned villages, which were muafidar (revenue free grants); that he died on the ist August, 1898; that his heirs, whose names were given, were in possession in place of the deceased; that Proclamation was duly issued, but the time had expired and no objection had b een filed.
Fact	It was therefore submitted that mutation in favour of the heirs in place of the deceased be sanctioned.
Fact	The names and descriptions and shares of the five heirs are set forth, the males being described as sons of the deceased.
Fact	A statement in detail of the shares in the villages is then given, and the report winds up with the following passage :-  In the reports of the other cases a reference was made to this case.
Precedent	In all these cases orders for mutation were passed with reference to this case; all the cases are of the same nature.
Precedent	27.
Fact	On the same day a statement is made and signed by <NAME>, setting out the same succession to the shares of the deceased in this village, to the effect following:- " The above-named five persons (naming them) are the heirs and owners according to their legal shares, and are entitled to mutations of names.
Fact	Heard and admitted."
Fact	And on the 7th October, 1898, an order is made and signed by the officer in charge of the Tahsil to the effect that, the case being  proceeded with that day and the <NAME>'s report being perused, it was ordered, in accordance with the <NAME>'s report, that the mutation slips be issued in the names of the deceased; that the fees be realised; that formal orders be issued; and that, after compliance, the files be consigned to the record room.
Fact	There is nothing to show that the requirements of the Revenue Act of 1876 were not strictly complied with.
Fact	In the absence of such evidence it must be assumed that they were complied with.
Fact	These proceedings accordingly amount to something far more important and convincing than a mere admission by <NAME> of Sultan <NAME>'s legitimacy.
Fact	They amount to the doing of an act by her by which an additional sharer in the property of the deceased is brought in and is given the right to receive portion of the income of that property, which property, if the deed were valid, belonged mainly to her and her children, and if invalid, belonged to them to a lesser extent.
Fact	Further, the act was accompanied by a st atement explaining it and setting forth the grounds on which it was based, namely, the heirship, as a legitimate son of Sultan <NAME>.
Fact	It would appear to their Lordships that the more probable inference to be drawn from this treatment of Sultan <NAME> is that it is but a continuance of the recognition and treatment he received during the life-time of the, deceased <NAME>, , rather than an entire departure from the course previously pursued.
RatioOfTheDecision	28.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be strange indeed if the ill-begotten child of a menial servant and a frail negress, never theretofore owned as a son of the <NAME>, or treated by him as such, should be at once selected for such an honour.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover, it was not a barren honour, for if Sultan <NAME> speaks the truth (at p. 276 of the second record), from the time of the mutation he and the other heirs " have been realising their shares of the profits separately."
RatioOfTheDecision	He does not appear to have been contradicted or even cross-examined on this point, and the <NAME> of <NAME>, who is still ali ve, was not produced to prove that his wife, though excluded from all further participation in her <NAME>'s assets by the trust deed, did not also receive her share of the income of these Zemindari villages.
Precedent	29.
Argument	On the 9th June, 1899, <NAME> applied under Section 10 of Act Bill of 1890 to the District Judge of Lucknow to be appointed guardian of the persons and property of her two minor sons.
Argument	The application purports to be signed by her in both her capacities and by the same pleader, <NAME>.
Argument	It contains a final passage in the usual form to the effect that she knew of her own knowledge that the entire immovable property to which the minors are entitled was of the value of 93,300 rupees, of which 60,000 rupees represent the Kothi, 13, Russell Street, Calcutta, and 15,000 rupees the property situate in; the city of Lucknow, leaving a balance of 18,300 rupees as the value of the other property; that 'they were m possession of this property; and that their relatives are, amongst others, <NAME>, bro ther of the minor, born of a Harem of <NAME>, deceased.
Argument	30.
Argument	In the schedule to the application, also purporting to be signed by her, she sets out the shares of each of the properties contained in the trust deed belonging to the minors.
Fact	For instance, their share of the Kothi, 13, Russell Street, Calcutta, is put down at twelve twenty-sevenths estimated value 60,609 rupees; whereas, under the trust deed, if valid, they would be entitled to the entire interest in this property, subject to 1 their mother's life-estate.
Fact	Every item in this schedule is inconsistent with the provisions of the trust deed.
Fact	31.
Fact	On the 12th June, 1900, <NAME> made an application under Section 31 of Act.
Fact	VIII of 1890, to the District Judge of Lucknow, for permission to mortgage the shares of the minors together with her own shares in the properties therein mentioned for the sum of 35m000 rupees, for the purpose of raising money to be applied in discharge of the judgment debts of the deceased <NAME>.
Fact	Two statements, A. and  B,, were attached to this application, the first setting out the debts o the deceased <NAME>, and the second, the properties of which he died seized or possessed.
Fact	In the former the name of <NAME> appears as an encumbrancer on all the property of the deceased <NAME> for the sum of 85,000 rupees, the unpaid balance of her dower.
Fact	In the second, the first number is <ORG> and seventy-eight shops and land situated in Chauk, City of Lucknow, the ancestor's share being four-ninths and the minor's two-ninths.
Fact	The annual income is stated to be 1,500 rupees.
Fact	The income arising out of the four-ninths share, 125 rupees per month and the charges upon it created by the ancestors are -put down at rupees 31,755-7-8, and its estimated value at 25,000 rupees, so that there is no beneficial interest whatever in it.
Fact	32.
Fact	No.
Fact	17 is Machrehta, in the district of Sitapur, and No.
Fact	16 the village of Janaura, in the district of Fyzabad, in each of which the share of the deceased was four-ninths, both are stated  to be included in a lease, and the estimated value of each is only 600 rupees.
Fact	33.
Fact	No.
Fact	15 is Kothi, 13, Russell Street, Calcutta, the ancestor's' share in which is stated to be sixteen annas, the minor's half the annual income 7,800 rupees, and the estimated value 55,000 rupees.
Fact	The amount due upon this under Mr. <NAME>'s mortgage is stated to be rupees 20,023-2-3, and his costs rupees 5,117-13-2, The shares of the minors are set forth, they are half their <NAME>'s share.
Fact	If the trust deed was valid their share would be the entire of their <NAME>'s share.
Fact	34.
Fact	On the 26th June, 1900, the District Judge granted permission to mortgage Nos.
Fact	2 to 14 on list B. for 16,000 rupees" as per terms of the draft mortgage filed, The shops in Lucknow, and No.
Fact	13, Russell Street, Calcutta, being therefore excluded.
Fact	35.
Fact	The mortgage now sued upon was executed the same day.
Fact	It purports to be signed by <NAME> on her own behalf, and as guardian of her minor sons.
Fact	36.
Fact	Her signature is witnessed by her brother and the oth er witnesses, who are described as identifying her before the Registrar, and is also signed by <NAME>, <NAME>,  37.
Fact	The very first recital in this deed is that <NAME> died a natural death in Lucknow on the ist August, 1898, leaving him surviving his widow, the declarant, his two minor sons, and <NAME>, his major son, and <NAME>, his major daughter, as his heirs.
Fact	It is further recited that the District Judge, under the provisions of the 31st section of the Act VIII of 1890, ordered the declarant to contract a debt of 16,000 rupees on the security of the property of the minors; and that, in compliance with that order and with a view to raise money to payoff the amount due on a certain decree named, she mortgaged her own share in these properties.
Fact	38.
Fact	In their Lordships' view, the only reasonable inference to be drawn from these documents and proceedings is that <NAME>, if aware of the purport and contents of this trust deed, consistently treated it as invalid, and ne ver, with full knowledge of its purport and effect-or, indeed, at all-elected to accept the provision made by it for her and her children as a satisfaction of the unpaid balance of her dower.
Fact	If she was never fully informed of its purport and contents, any election by her to accept the provision made for herself and her children by it in discharge of the unpaid balance of her dower would, of course, be of no avail.
Fact	If this be so the mortgagee's rights cannot be affected, or his security invalidated, by any course of action she might have chosen to take after the execution of the mortgage.
Fact	As regards the receipt of the rent or income of the property mortgaged, it must be borne in mind that <NAME> ' Begum would have been entitled to an eighth share of it and her sons to their shares of it, even if the trust deed had never existed; and that she, as their guardian, would have .been entitled to be paid their share as well as her own, while under the trust deed the trustees or she herself with their permission woul d have been entitled to receive the entire income, so that the receipt by her of a portion of the income of any of the property comprised either in the trust deed or in the mortgage might be equally consistent with her title under the deed of independent of it, and therefore no proof at all of possession under it.
Fact	In the mortgage deed of the 13th September, 1902, it is recited that a lease of the Kothi, 13, Russell Street, in the city of Calcutta, was executed on the 19th April, 1901, ten months after the date of the appellant's mortgage.
Fact	The witness, <NAME>, proves, no doubt, that he has received the rent due under this lease on behalf of the trustees since the 13th September, 1902.
Precedent	39.
Precedent	The letters from the agents of <ORG> at Lucknow to the trustees acknowledging the receipt from the branch of their bank at Calcutta of different sums to be placed to their credit range from the 21st August, 1901, to July 1902-It is not shown precisely what was the true nature of these lodgments in the b ank at Calcutta, but from their dates and amounts and the place of lodgment the inference probably would be that they were the rents of the only property belonging to the deceased <NAME> situated in Calcutta.
RatioOfTheDecision	The evidence of <NAME> on this point is very unsatisfactory.
RatioOfTheDecision	At p. 377 he states that after the <NAME>'s death he was accustomed personally to bring from <NAME> the shares of <NAME>, and her two sons in the profits of the jagir villages.
RatioOfTheDecision	He then appears to have added that he got the profit, for <NAME> without any specification as to whose profits they were, and then, having been reminded of his former answer, he said it was true, that both answers were true.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the trust deed <NAME> would have been entitled to all the income, her sons to none o^ it, so that this evidence is more consistent with the lady's taking against the trust deed than under it.
Precedent	There is no satisfactory evidence therefore, in their Lordships' opinion, that the trustees ever entered, under and by  virtue of the trust deed, into receipt of the rent or income of the property comprised in the mortgage sued upon, and consequently that there is no satisfactory proof that the possession of this portion of the property, the subject of the gift, was ever delivered by the settlor to the trustees.
Precedent	40.
Precedent	Even if the proof of the receipt of the rent of the Kothi, 13, Russell Street, Calcutta, were so satisfactory as to support the conclusion that possession of it had been delivered to the trustees at the date of the trust deed, or indeed at any time during the lifetime of the settlor, which, in their Lordships' view, it is not, the receipt of the rent of these premises, differing altogether as they do in nature and character from the property mortgaged,' separated by many miles from these jagir villages, and not forming with them one concrete whole, would furnish no proof whatever of the delivery by the settlor to the trustees of his shares in the villages mentioned in the mortgage.
Precedent	Their Lordships are, therefore,  of opinion that possession of the property mortgaged not having been proved to have been delivered, the gift is, according to the Mahomedan law applicable to the case, void, and that the mortgage sued upon is therefore a valid and a1-- binding instrument, and a good security.
Precedent	41.
RatioOfTheDecision	The only question remaining for consideration is the legitimacy of Sultan <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The burden of proving his illegitimacy rests, according to the pleadings in the first instance at all events, on the plaintiffs in the second suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would appear to their Lordships that a fallacy underlies some of the arguments addressed to them on behalf of the respondents on this point It consists in assuming that the fact, even if true, that Sultan <NAME> was treated by the <NAME>, and especially by his family, with less care, kindness, consideration, and respect than the sons of the high-born ladies to whom the <NAME> had been united by nikkai marriages, furnishes proof of Sultan <NAME>'s illegitimacy.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the Mahomedan law and indeed under the Eng lish law, the legitimate son of the most low born, debased, and degraded woman to whom a man could be lawfully united has just the same proprietary right in his <NAME>'s property as if his mother had been the most well-born and the purest.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it is rather against human nature to suppose that this equality before the law should secure equality of treatment in the domestic circle.
Argument	It was also urged that the treatment which Sultan <NAME> and his mother received in the <NAME>'s family was quite inconsistent with his position as the legitimate son of the <NAME>, and of her position as the legitimate wife, through a muta marriage, of the <NAME>, The misfortune of that argument is that the position in the family of both Sultan <NAME> and his mother, and the treatment both received, especially the latter, is still more inconsistent with her being, as the respondent alleged, the mistress of a menial servant, and he the offspring of their intercourse.
Precedent	Even while she was pregnant with child she was permitted privileges whic h it is almost impossible to believe would have been accorded to her if her state being known, as it must have beep, it was attributable to her improper intimacy with a menial servant.
Precedent	<NAME> when he grew up, turned out to be rather a " mauvais suejt."
Precedent	His connection with theatres displeased the <NAME>.
Precedent	His mother had eloped or disappeared.
Precedent	If he was the illegi-timite son of the menial servant there was no reason why the <NAME> should not have turned him adrift.
Precedent	On the contrary he kept him on in his (the <NAME>'s)' home, undoubtedly] associated, to some extent, with him, had him about his person and, it is apparent on the evidence, had some regard for him.
Precedent	In their Lordships' view the reasonable, inference from all the evidence on this point is that <NAME> was, at all events, the son of <NAME> and this negress.
Precedent	42.
RatioOfTheDecision	The crucial question then is, was he the <NAME>'s legitimate son?
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no question that the <NAME> was the son of this woman.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is admitted by all parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now four  witnesses have proved distinctly that the <NAME> acknowledged him to be his son.
Precedent	That prima facie means his legitimate son : <NAME> v. <NAME> (1868) 10 W.R. 469.
Precedent	43.
Precedent	The first of these witnesses, <NAME> Faghfur <NAME>, the son of Prince <NAME>, belonging to the family of the Kings of Oudh, states that he knew <NAME> for thirty to thiry-five years, that he knew Sultan <NAME> and his mother; that he saw the <NAME> and Sultan <NAME> treating each other like <NAME> and son, that he went to see the deceased <NAME> in his last illness, and then found Sultan <NAME> attending him, that the <NAME> had been displeased with Sultan <NAME> because the latter had become addicted to singing and dancing but that as far as the witness could judge the <NAME> had forgiven him, that fifteen or sixteen years had elapsed since them and that the <NAME> on one occasion introduced Sultan <NAME> to the witness as his son.
Precedent	The second witness, <NAME>, states that <NAME> told him that  the negress, the sultan <NAME>'s mother, was his muta wifes that he saw Sultan <NAME> visiting the family in which <NAME> lived at Murshidabad, and that this family treated him as a son, as did also <NAME> himself.
Precedent	44.
Precedent	The third witness, Husain Ali <NAME>, son of <NAME> of Bengal, states that <NAME> was married to <NAME> Kamyal Baksh, son of the late King of Oudh; that the knew Sultan <NAME>; that he saw him with his <NAME> <NAME>, who told the witness that Sultan <NAME> was his son by a muta woman 5 and that he saw him once or twice visiting at Murshidabad during <NAME>'s lifetime.
RatioOfTheDecision	This witness was subjected to a cross-examination, presumably con-effective as to the time of the day at which the <NAME> made this statement to him.
RatioOfTheDecision	The last of these witnesses is <NAME>.
Precedent	He says that one day, about fourteen or sixteen years before he gave his evidence, he, jesting, asked <NAME> whence he got this boy Sultan <NAME>, and he replied that he  was his son by an Abyssinian, his wife by muta, presented to him by his, the Nawab's <NAME>, that he saw <NAME> many times, and saw his <NAME> treat him as a relation, a son, or brother, and not as a servant.
Precedent	45.
Precedent	The Subordinate Judge, at op.
Precedent	530-53-, has criticised in detail the evidence in conflict with these statements, and shows conclusively, their Lordships think, that much weight cannot be attached to it.
Precedent	46.
RatioOfTheDecision	Putting aside <NAME>'s own evidence, their Lordships cannot find anything in the case to discredit the evidence of the four witnesses above named.
RatioOfTheDecision	They have no interest to induce them to state what they do not believe to be true.
RatioOfTheDecision	The criticism passed upon their evidence was, first, that <NAME> was only introduced to each of them once, and therefore their recollection is unreliable, as if it was to be expected that a <NAME> would naturally introduce a son to a friend as his son more than once; and, second, that they speak to what took place many years ago.
RatioOfTheDecision	They profess, however,  to have a clear recollection of the events they depose to; and the Subordinate Judge, who had the advantage of seeing and hearing them, believed them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Much reliance was placed upon two documents in addition to the trust deed, which, it was contended, contained a distinct repudiation by <NAME> of Sultan <NAME>'s legitimacy, namely, the Tarikh Quaisara and the memorandum bearing date the 15th February 1893.
RatioOfTheDecision	Both these documents were composed many years subsequent to the dates of the acknowledgments deposed to by the four witnesses mentioned.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the first he names his children by his first wife and those by <NAME>, and states that there can be no heirs to him but these that these persons are the owners of and heirs of his property; and that if any other claimant comes forward his claim should be considered invalid by the Government.
RatioOfTheDecision	47.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the memorandum he states that one of his sons by his first marriage, having died, his three sons, one daughter, and his wife <NAME>, five persons in all, are  his heirs, and he proceeds to declare that besides these he has none, and that if any added person comes forward as his heir other than a son or daughter thereafter born to him by his wife <NAME>, his claim shall be considered false and unlawful.
RatioOfTheDecision	48.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is quite evident from these documents that <NAME> was very apprehensive that some person would come forward claiming to be his heir, else it would be meaningless and purposeless to write thus.
RatioOfTheDecision	These apprehensions and fears M would have been (national if the person whose claim he desired to defeat was the well-known progeny of the negress and a menial servant.
RatioOfTheDecision	But his fears could easily be accounted for, if in fact he had had a son by a mulct, wife whom he had treated to some extent as a son, and who by reason of that treatment might be a formidable claimant, but yet whose claims he desired, not unnaturally perhaps, to discount.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their Lordships do not think that the evidence of the four witnesses above-mentioned is rebutted or discredited by th ese documents.
Precedent	49.
Precedent	If this be so, the rule of the Mahomedan law applicable to the case is well established : No statement made by one man that another (proved to be illegitimate) is his son can make that other legitimate, but where no proof of that kind has been given such a statement or acknowledgment is substantive evidence that the person so acknowledged is the legitimate son of the person who makes the statement provided his legitimacy be possible : <CITATION_1765052> (1888) I.L.R.
Precedent	10 All.
Precedent	289, and <NAME> v. <NAME> (1881) L.R.
Precedent	9 I.A.
Precedent	8.
Precedent	50.
Precedent	It is also well established according to Mahomedan law that if a member of a family, such as <NAME> was of her <NAME>'s family, makes statements touching the sonship or heirship of a person, such as are contained in many of the written documents she has signed, in reference to Sultan <NAME>'s heirship, those statements are good evidence of the family repute concerning him: <NAME> v. <NAME> (1907) L.R.
Precedent	30 I .A.
Precedent	94, 109.
Precedent	51.
Precedent	On the whole case, therefore, their Lordships are of opinion that the decrees appealed from in these consolidated appeals are both erroneous and should be reversed, and the decrees of the Subordinate Judge in both should be restored, and that both appeals should be allowed with costs here and below, and they will humbly advise His Majesty accordingly.
Precedent	52.
Precedent	Their Lordships, however, do not think that they can, consistently with their duty as members of this appellate tribunal part with this case without making a few observations on some remarkable features of the litigation out of which the appeals have arisen.
Fact	First, as to the question of the duration of the litigation.
Fact	The first suit was instituted on the 30th April, 1907.
Fact	Various applications were made by the parties K for extension of time, the issues were fixed on the 26th!
Fact	August, 1907.
Fact	On the 19th June, 1908, the hearing began, and judgment was delivered by the Subordinate Judge on the 25th October, 1909, two years and five months afte r the institution of the suit.
Fact	The petition of appeal to <ORG> was lodged on the 28th January, 1910, and judgment of the <ORG> was not delivered till the 13th November, 1911.
Precedent	53.
Precedent	An application for liberty to appeal to His Majesty in Council was lodged on the 19th December, 1911.
Precedent	Permission was given on the 13th December, 1912, but the notice that it had been given was not saved upon the respondents till the 23rd January, 1913. '
Precedent	54.
Precedent	The petitions of appeal were lodged at <ORG> on the 15^1 April, 1914, but the appeals were not set down for hearing till the 27th October, 1^15, that is about eight years and six months after the institution of the suit.
Precedent	55.
Fact	The second suit was instituted on the 22nd February, 1908.
Fact	The issues were settled on the 30th March, 1908.
Fact	The, hearing apparently began on the nth June, 1908, and continued at intervals till the 27th June, 1909.
Fact	It was taken up for argument early in July, 19^9, was adjourned till the 21st of that month, and  judgment was not delivered till the 25th October, 1909.
Fact	The petition of appeal to <ORG> was not lodged till the 21th January, 1910 and judgment was not given till the 13th December, 1911.
Precedent	56.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such delays as these are discreditable to any judicial system, and their Lordships have no reason to think they are not to a large extent avoidable.
RatioOfTheDecision	They vastly increase the costs, keep litigants in a state of anxious uncertainty, and prejudice their interest in many ways.
RatioOfTheDecision	Next, the cross-examination of witnesses was so unduly prolonged by the repeated asking of frivolous aid irrelevant questions, that witnesses had to be recalled two or three times, of .en at considerable intervals, before their cross examination was concluded, and when recalled, the questions already asked and answered were often repeated.
RatioOfTheDecision	The cross-examination was thus broken up into several detached portions.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it were specially designed, as their r Lordships are confident it was not, to expose witnesses to the ris k of being tampered with, and to promote the fabrication of false evidence, no better system could be devised for that end than this splitting up of the cross-examination of witnesses.
RatioOfTheDecision	57.
RatioOfTheDecision	Again, though the application to examine <NAME> may possibly have been rightly refused in the first instance, having in regard to the time it was made, their Lordships cannot but regret that after the case had progressed, and every one saw, as they must have seen, that it was vital to obtain her evidence, the, Subordinate Judge did not announce to the parties that he was;; then ready to give permission to have her evidence taken, and v, did not impress upon the respondents in the first suit that as they sought to have declared void the solemn deed this lady had entered into, and on the faith of which she had obtained the appellant's money, it was their duty to examine her to explain the circumstances under which she entered into it.
RatioOfTheDecision	That was not done, however.
RatioOfTheDecision	The defendants did not again apply, and the case proceede d to drag slowly on without the evidence of the witness who knew all about the facts, and whose evidence would probably have put an end to the controversy one way or another in a few hours.
RatioOfTheDecision	58.
RatioOfTheDecision	Finally, their Lordships feel bound to criticise adversely a practice followed in these two cases, which is as illegal as it is slovenly and embarrassing.
RatioOfTheDecision	By the list section of " The Civil Procedure Act , 1877," repeated in " The Civil Procedure Code of 1882," and practically re-enacted in Order XIII Rule 4, of the Rules and Orders passed under the Code of Civil Procedure of 1908, it is provided that a presiding Judge shall endorse with his own hand a statement that it (i.e., a document proved or admitted in evidence) was proved against or admitted by the person against whom it was used.
RatioOfTheDecision	That course was is many instances not followed at the hearing of these two cases, with the result that embarrassing and perplexing controversies arose on the hearing of these appeals as to whether or not certain documents, prints of  which were bound up in the record, had been given in evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no possible excuse for the neglect, in this manner, of the duty imposed by the statutes, since so long ago as the 3rd March, 1884, a circular was addressed by the then Registrar of <ORG> to the Registrar of <ORG> calling attention to the requirements of the then existing law and the necessity of observing them.
RulingByPresentCourt	A copy of this circular was sent not only to <ORG> Madras Bombay, and Allahabad, but, in addition, to the Judicial Commissioner of Oudh and other Judicial Commissioners.
RulingByPresentCourt	Their Lordships, with a view of insisting on, the observant of these statutes, 'will in order to prevent future on the hearing of Indian appeals to t permit to be used any document not endorsed in the manner required.
