Fact	CASE NO.
Fact	: Appeal (civil) 6543 of 1999 PETITIONER: <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: <NAME> AND ORS.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 10/10/2000 BENCH: <NAME>, K.G.Balakrishna JUDGMENT:  <NAME>, J.L.....I.........T.......T.......T.......T.......T.......T..J The appellant contested the election for the post of President of Vannavalkudi Village Panchayat, Pudukkottai District in Tamil Nadu.
Fact	The respondent nos.
Fact	1, 2 & 3 were also the candidates for the same election.
Fact	The polling took place on 12.10.96 and the votes were counted on 14.10.96.
Fact	The 1st respondent, <NAME> secured 1011 votes and the appellant <NAME> secured 1010 votes and the 1st respondent was declared elected.
Fact	The other respondents had secured only lesser number of votes.
Fact	The appellant filed an Election Petition under Rule 122 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995 before the District Judge, Pudukkottai, challenging the election of the 1st respondent.
Fact	In the Election Petition, the appellant contended that certain irregularities were committed w hile the counting of votes was made.
Fact	According to the appellant, the names of the dead persons were not deleted from the electoral roll and the first respondent took advantage of this, and despite the objection raised by the agents of the appellant, impersonation had taken place at the time of polling.
Fact	The appellant also alleged that at the time of counting, a number of valid votes polled in favour of the appellant were treated as invalid by the Returning Officer and though the appellant's agents raised objection, the Returning Officer did not pay heed to it.
Fact	The appellant further alleged that the counting officers had no knowledge as to which was valid vote and which was invalid one.
Fact	The counting was done in a hasty manner and the agents of the appellant were not allowed to closely peruse the ballot papers.
Fact	Certain ballot papers contained thumb impression, but they were rejected as invalid votes.
Fact	The appellant filed a petition before the Returning Officer for recounting of votes, but that prayer was not allo wed and on the above grounds, the appellant filed Election Petition for setting aside the election of the 1st respondent.
Fact	The 1st respondent filed counter affidavit denying the allegations in the Election Petition.
Fact	The 1st respondent contended that the allegations in the Election Petition are vague and insufficient to set aside the election.
Fact	He contended that no material particulars are furnished in the Election Petition and only bald allegations have been made and, therefore, the Election Petition was liable to be dismissed.
Fact	The 1st respondent also alleged that the appellant had not given any particulars regarding inclusion of names of dead persons in the electoral roll.
Fact	According to the 1st respondent, there was no irregularity or illegality in the counting of votes.
Fact	Four witnesses were examined on the side of the appellant.
Fact	On the respondent's side, RW1 and RW2 were examined.
Fact	<ORG> held that no details were available as to how many votes were secured by the appellant-Election Petitioner a nd the 1st respondent after the first round of counting and that the appellant had filed an application for recount before the Returning Officer.
Fact	Therefore, <ORG> ordered re-count of votes and an Advocate-Commissioner was appointed for recounting of votes and he submitted a detailed commission report.
Fact	On re-count made by the commissioner, the appellant had secured 1002 votes and the 1st respondent, <NAME>, had secured 975 votes.
Fact	Based on the report of the Commissioner, <ORG> declared the appellant-<NAME> as the person elected as President of <ORG> and the Election Petition was accordingly allowed.
Fact	Aggrieved by the order of <ORG>, the 1st respondent, <NAME>, filed a Revision Petition before <ORG>, Madras under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.
Fact	The learned Single Judge held that <ORG> was not justified in ordering the recount of votes as the appellant had not made out a prima facie ground for recount ing.
Fact	The learned Single Judge held that the Election Petition is bereft of any material facts and only vague allegations have been made and the appointment of the Commissioner for recounting of votes was illegal and incorrect and, therefore, without jurisdiction.
Fact	The Revision was allowed and it was held that the Election Petition would stand dismissed with costs.
Fact	Aggrieved by the above facts, the present appeal is filed.
Fact	We heard the appellant's Counsel Ms. <NAME> and the Counsel for the 1st respondent, Mr. <NAME>.
Fact	The main contention urged by the appellant's Counsel is that the learned Single Judge seriously flawed in holding that the Election Petition did not contain the necessary pleadings for seeking recount of the votes.
Fact	The appellant's Counsel also contended that the 1st Respondent had never raised any objection when the Commissioner was appointed by <ORG> and the Commissioner had correctly conducted the recounting of votes and declared the appellant elected.
Fact	The Counse l for the 1st respondent contended that <ORG> should not have ordered re-count of votes and there was no foundation in the pleadings raised in the Election Petition.
Fact	It was urged by the Counsel for the 1st respondent that the Election Petition itself was liable to be dismissed for want of necessary pleadings.
Fact	It was also argued by the counsel for the 1st respondent that the Commissioner, who conducted the recounting, wrongly rejected 31 ballot votes cast in favour of the 1st respondent and according to the Counsel, in view of the Proviso to Rule 63 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayat's (Election) Rules 1995, the Commissioner should have treated those votes as valid votes even though they did not contain the distinguishing mark of the polling station.
Fact	Counsel for the 1st respondent further argued that the Election Petitioner had filed the application for recount before the Returning Officer after the declaration of the result of the election and the failure to file a proper application for recount bef ore the Returning Officer would disentitle the Election Petitioner from making a similar prayer before <ORG>.
Fact	The main arguments of Counsel on either side centered round the question whether in the instant case <ORG> was justified in ordering a recount.
Fact	The circumstances under which a recount could be ordered have been considered by this <ORG> in various decisions.
Fact	A survey of at least some of the cases would be of much assistance to know how this <ORG> made pronouncements on this legal question in the settings of various factual background.
Fact	<CITATION_1804058> 1993 (Supp.)
Fact	2 SCC 8, it was held that the secrecy of the ballot papers cannot be permitted to be tinkered lightly and an order of recount cannot be granted as a matter of course.
Fact	Only when the High <ORG> is satisfied on the basis of material facts pleaded in the petition and supported by the contemporaneous evidence, that the recount can be ordered.
Fact	When there was no contemporaneous evidence to show any irregularity o r illegality in the counting, ordinarily, it would not be proper to order re-count on the basis of bare allegations in the Election Petition.
Fact	<CITATION_1992927> , AIR 1970 SC 276, the election-petitioner, who claimed to be a counting agent filed Election Petition alleging that there was irregularity and illegality in the counting of votes.
Fact	The learned Single Judge, who was trying the Election Petition permitted the petitioner to inspect the packets of the ballot papers containing the accepted as well as the rejected votes of the candidates.
Fact	This Court, while allowing the appeal, held that the basic requirements to be satisfied before <ORG> can permit the inspection of ballot papers are that (1) the petition for setting aside the election must contain an adequate statement of material facts on which the petitioner relies in support of his case and (2) the <ORG> must be prima facie satisfied that in order to decide the dispute and to do complete justice between the parties, inspection of ba llot papers is necessary.
Fact	The material facts required to be stated are those facts, which can be considered as materials supporting the allegations made.
Fact	In other words, they must be such facts as to afford a basis for the allegations made in the petition.
Fact	<CITATION_908191> 1984 Supp.
Fact	SCC 157, allegations were made in the Election Petition that there was discrepancy between the total number of ballot papers issued and ballot papers taken out and counted from the ballot boxes.
Fact	This Court held that the discrepancies alleged in the statements prepared under Rule 45 and 56 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1967 do not make out a case for directing a re-count of votes especially when the discrepancy is marginal and insignificant.
Fact	In Para 4 of the said Judgment, it was held that in order to obtain re-count of votes, a proper foundation is required to be laid by the Election Petitioner indicating the precise material on the basis of which it could be urged by him with some substance that there has been either impr oper reception of invalid votes in favour of the elected candidate or improper rejection of valid votes in favour of the defeated candidate or wrong counting of votes in favour of the elected candidate, which had in reality been cast in favour of the defeated candidate.
Fact	<NAME> Vs. <NAME> and Others (1989) 1 SCC 526 is a case where the petitioner contested the election for the post of President of a <ORG> in Tamil Nadu.
Fact	In the election, the 1st respondent was declared elected and the petitioner challenged the election on the ground that while counting, the Returning Officer had wrongly treated some valid votes cast in favour of the petitioner as invalid votes and certain invalid votes were treated as valid votes which were cast in favour of the 1st respondent and that the Returning Officer had not permitted the petitioner's agents to have scrutiny of the ballot papers at the time of counting.
Fact	The <ORG> after recording the evidence of all candidates and the Assistant Retur ning Officer ordered re-count of votes.
Fact	On recounting of votes, it was found that there was no difference in the number of votes secured by the petitioner but insofar as the 1st respondent was concerned he had secured only 528 votes as against 649 votes he was originally held to have secured.
Fact	121 votes cast in his favour had been found to be invalid votes.
Fact	Based on the figures of the re-count, the Election Petitioner was declared duly elected as he had secured 28 votes more than the 1st respondent on recount.
Fact	This order was challenged by the 1st respondent in Civil Revision Petition before <ORG>.
Fact	The learned Single Judge allowed the Revision Petition and held that the <ORG> had erred in ordering a recount of the votes when the petitioner had not made out a prima facie case for an order of recount of votes cast.
Fact	This Order was challenged before this Court.
Precedent	This Court held in para 13 of the said Judgment as under:-  "Thus the settled position of law is that the justification for an order for examina tion of ballot papers and recount of votes is not to be derived from hindsight and by the result of the recount of votes.
Precedent	On the contrary, the justification for an order of recount of votes should be provided by the material placed by an Election Petitioner on the threshold before an order for recount of votes is actually made.
Precedent	The reason for this salutary rule is that the preservation of the secrecy of the ballot is a sacrosanct principle which cannot be lightly or hastily broken unless there is prima facie genuine need for it.
Precedent	The right of a defeated candidate to assail the validity of an election result and seek recounting of votes has to be subject to the basic principle that the secrecy of the ballot is sacrosanct in a democracy and hence unless the affected candidate is able to allege and substantiate in acceptable measure by means of evidence that a prima facie case of a high degree of probability existed for the recount of votes being ordered by <ORG> in the interests of justice, a Tri <ORG> or court should not order the recount of votes."
Precedent	<CITATION_447461> (1964) 6 SCR 238, this Court held that an order for inspection of ballot papers can be granted under the following circumstances:  "An order for inspection may not be granted as a matter of course : having regard to the insistence upon the secrecy of the ballot papers, the court would be justified in granting an order for inspection provided two conditions are fulfilled :  (i) that the petition for setting aside an election contains an adequate statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies in support of his case; and  (ii)The Tri<ORG> is prima facie satisfied that in order to decide the dispute and to do complete justice between the parties inspection of the ballot papers is necessary But an order for inspection of ballot papers cannot be granted to support vague pleas made in the petition not supported by material facts or to fish out evidence to support such pleas.
Precedent	The case of the petitioner must be set out with prec ision supported by averments of material facts.
Precedent	To establish a case so pleaded an order for inspection may undoubtedly, if the interests of justice require, be granted.
Precedent	But a mere allegation that the petitioner suspects or believes that there has been an improper reception, refusal or rejection of votes will not be sufficient to support an order for inspection."
Precedent	<CITATION_556135> .
Precedent	1980 Supp.
Precedent	SCC 53, in paragraph 31 of the Judgment, it was held as under:  "True, re-count cannot be ordered just for the asking.
Precedent	A petition for re-count after inspection of the ballot papers must contain an adequate statement on material facts on which the petitioner relies in support of his case and secondly the <ORG> must be prima facie satisfied that in order to decide the dispute and to do complete justice between the parties an inspection of the ballot papers is necessary.
Precedent	The discretion conferred in this behalf should not be exercised in such a way so as to enable the applicant to indulge in a roving inquiry with a view  to fishing out materials for declaring the election void."
Precedent	<CITATION_700279> , the Election Petitioner challenged the election on the ground that there were a number of errors in the counting of votes and that the electoral roll itself was inaccurate.
Fact	The petitioner sought for re- count of votes.
Fact	<ORG> ordered a re-count holding that although there was no clear evidence of any irregularity in counting in the first two rounds, there was a possibility of the counting staff being completely exhausted in the third round which may have led to erroneous sorting and counting of votes.
Fact	In ordering a re-count <ORG> was also influenced by the fact that the margin of the "returned candidate" was only 19 votes.
Fact	The Order of <ORG> was challenged before this Court.
Fact	This Court reversed the order passed by <ORG> and after referring to various decisions on this point, it was held as under:-  "The court would be justified in ordering re-count of the ballot papers only where:  (1) The Election  Petition contains an adequate statement of all the material facts on which the allegations of irregularity or illegality in counting are founded;  (2) On the basis of evidence adduced such allegations are prima facie established, affording a good ground for believing that there has been a mistake in counting; and (3) The court trying the petition is prima facie satisfied that the making of such an order is imperatively necessary to decide the dispute and to do complete and effectual justice between the parties."
Fact	<CITATION_861700> 1995 Supp.
Fact	(2) SCC 101, the Election Petitioner alleged that the counting was not done in a congenial atmosphere.
Fact	The allegation was that counting was held in a small hall and there were several tables and chairs and counting agents of all the candidates along with other officials were present in the hall; therefore, it became very crowded and sorting out of the bundles of the ballot papers was done hastily and, therefore, it was not possible for the agents of the petitioner to ca refully keep track of the process of sorting-out and it was alleged that the Returning Officer rejected many votes as invalid in spite of the protest made by the petitioner.
Fact	On these allegations, the petitioner sought for re-count of votes.
Fact	That prayer was rejected by <ORG> and the same was challenged before this Court.
Fact	After referring to the various decisions, it was held that the demand of the defeated candidate for re-count of votes has to be considered keeping in view that secrecy of the ballot is sacrosanct in a democracy and, therefore, unless the Election Petitioner is able not only to plead and disclose the material facts but also substantiate the same by means of evidence of reliable character that there existed a prima facie case for re-count, no tribunal or court would be justified in directing a re-count.
Fact	The result of the analysis of the above cases would show that this Court has consistently taken the view that re-count of votes could be ordered very rarely and on specific allegation i n the pleadings in the election petition that illegality or irregularity was committed while counting.
Fact	The petitioner who seeks re-count should allege and prove that there was improper acceptance of invalid votes or improper rejection of valid votes.
Fact	If only the <ORG> is satisfied about the truthfulness of the above allegation, it can order re-count of votes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secrecy of ballot has always been considered sacrosanct in a democratic process of election and it cannot be disturbed lightly by bare allegations of illegality or irregularity in counting.
RatioOfTheDecision	But if it is proved that purity of elections has been tarnished and it has materially affected the result of the election whereby the defeated candidate is seriously prejudiced, the <ORG> can resort to re-count of votes under such circumstances to do justice between the parties.
Fact	In the instant case, the appellant in his Election Petition alleged in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Election Petition as under: ".............
Fact	The wrong electoral roll was utilized by the Presid ing Officer.
Fact	The appellant and his agents strongly protested against the wrong electoral roll.
Fact	The dead persons names were not deleted from the electoral roll, and other Panchayat Villagers names were in the electoral roll.
Fact	The 1st respondent utilized the same.
Fact	The appellant and his agent strongly objected but the Presiding Officer, has not taken any care about the electoral roll and impersonation.
Fact	The said votes polled in favour of the 1st respondent are void and therefore has to be excluded.
Fact	While counting of votes, the appellants and his agents represented these facts and requested the counting officers and the Returning Officers both orally and in writing to reject these votes polled by these persons.
Fact	But they refused to consider the said objections.
Fact	Their such acts are illegal ..........................................................
Fact	The Counting Officers wantonly put the appellant's valid votes to invalid vote box.
Fact	The appellant's valid votes were added in the invalid votes.
Fact	The appellant and his agen ts strongly objected but the Counting Officers and Returning Officers did not care about the objections.
Fact	The Counting Officers counted the votes in favour of 1st Respondent.
Fact	"Furthermore, the Counting Officers did not know which is valid vote and which is invalid vote.
Fact	During the polling votes, the Booth Officers received the thumb impression from some voters and gave the ballot papers.
Fact	The thumb impression ink marks available in the ballot papers.
Fact	The same votes were rejected and put into the invalid votes.
Fact	The Counting Officers were newly appointed.
Fact	They were not properly counting the votes.
Fact	The Counting Officers were counting the votes very fast and they had not shown the ballots to the agents, even when they raised objection.
Fact	The Counting Officers threatened the Appellant's agent and told him that they are supreme authority for counting votes.
Fact	...............................
Fact	Finally, the Returning Officer announced that the 1st Respondent had secured 1011 votes.
Fact	Appellant secured 1010 votes.
Fact	The differenc e is only one vote.
Fact	More than 100 votes were added in the invalid votes by the Counting Officers.
Fact	Some invalid votes were included to the 1st Respondent which were void and which ought to have been rejected.
Fact	The Counting Officers and the Returning Officers had not seen the intention of the voters in the ballot."
Fact	From the above pleadings, it is evident that the appellant has not set forth material facts or particulars required for re-count of votes.
Fact	To justify his contention that there was irregularity or illegality in the counting, except making some general and bald allegations, no other details are given.
Fact	Though an allegation is made that electoral roll contained the names of dead persons, that the 1st respondent took advantage of the same, and that some persons had impersonated and cast votes in his favour, no details are given as to who committed such irregularity.
Fact	The appellant has also not mentioned as to how many such votes had been cast in favour of the 1st respondent.
RulingByLowerCourt	So also, the appellant has not  alleged the nature of the illegality or irregularity said to have been committed by the counting officers.
RulingByLowerCourt	How and in what manner there was improper acceptance of invalid votes and improper rejection of valid votes also is not explained by the appellant.
RulingByLowerCourt	In short, the Election Petition is bereft of all details and the appellant, while examined as PW 1, could not supplement anything by way of evidence.
Argument	The appellant has contended that an application for re-count was made by him before the Returning Officer.
Precedent	Rule 66 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995 states that after the completion of counting and recording in Form 22 the total number of votes polled by each candidate under sub-rule (2) of rule 64, the Returning Officer shall announce the same.
Precedent	After such announcement, and before the declaration of the result of the election, a contesting candidate or in his absence, his election agent may apply in writing to the Returning Officer for a recount of all or any of the votes already counted stat ing the grounds on which he demands such recount.
Precedent	Sub-rule (2) of Rule 66 further says that on such application being made, the Returning Officer shall decide the matter and may allow the application in whole or in part, or may reject it in toto if it appears to him to be frivolous or unreasonable.
Fact	Therefore, an application for recount shall be made before the declaration of the result of the election, but after the completion of the counting, when such result is entered in part II of Form 20.
Fact	This form is to be signed by the Counting Supervisor and the Returning Officer.
Fact	The appellant-Election Petitioner in this case has not stated as to when did he file the application for re-count.
Fact	He has stated that he had given an application to the Returning Officer for recounting of votes and the request for recounting was not accepted.
Fact	At the time of the evidence also, the appellant has not stated as to when did he file the application.
Fact	In cross-examination, he stated that at about 10.00 p.m. on 14.10.1996, it was an nounced through loud speaker that the 1st respondent was elected and he denied the allegation that the application for re-count was made at 11.45 p.m.
Fact	The 1st respondent was examined as RW 1.
Fact	He deposed that the result of the election was declared at 10.30 p.m. and in all probability, the appellant filed an application for re-count after the result of the election was declared.
Fact	Therefore, the application for re-count was not filed in accordance with Rule 66 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995.
Fact	It is all the more important to note that the appellant sought to set aside the election of the 1st respondent and in the Election Petition urged the grounds under Section 259(2)(d)(iii) & (iv) of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 and the relevant provision is to the following effect:-  "259.
Fact	Grounds for declaring elections to be void.
Fact	(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), if the District Judge is of the opinion  (a) XXXXXX (b) XXXXXX (c) XXXXXX  (d) that the result of the election in so  far as it concernes a returned candidate has been materially affected  --  (i)-(ii) XXXX  (iii) by the improper acceptance or refusal of any vote or reception of any vote which is void; or  (iv) by the non-compliance with the provisions of this Act or of any rules or orders made thereunder, the court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void."
Fact	But in the Election Petition, the appellant has not stated that by the alleged improper acceptance or refusal of any vote or reception of any vote, which is void, or by the alleged non-compliance with the provisions of the Act or of any rules or orders made thereunder, the result of the election of the 1st respondent had been materially affected.
Fact	The appellant was examined as PW 1.
Fact	At the time of the evidence also, he had not stated that because of the alleged illegality or irregularity, the result of the election had been materially affected.
Fact	Grounds under Section 259(2) could successfully be urged only if it is proved that the election of the re turned candidate had been materially affected.
Fact	The Counsel for the 1st respondent contended that the Commissioner while counting postal ballot papers illegally rejected 31 votes cast in favour of the 1st respondent on the ground that these ballot papers did not contain the signature of the Presiding Officer.
Fact	Three votes cast in favour of the appellant also were rejected by the Commissioner on the same ground.
Fact	The Commissioner held the view that Rule 63(1)(h) of the Tamil Nadu Panchayat(Election) Rules, 1995 requires that the postal ballot paper shall contain the signature of the Presiding Officer as well as the distinguishing mark of the polling station.
Fact	The procedure for issuance of postal ballot papers is given under Rule 51, which says that before any ballot paper is delivered to an <NAME>, the Presiding Officer shall sign his name in full on the back of each ballot paper and affix the distinguishing mark of the polling station.
Fact	The relevant portion of Rule 63 of Tamil Nadu Panchayat(Election) Rules, 19 95 reads as follows:-  "63.
Fact	Rejection of ballot papers.
Statute	(1) A ballot paper shall be rejected.-  (a)-(g) XXXXXX  (h) if it does not bear both the distinguishing mark and/or the signature of the Presiding Officer which it should have borne under the provisions of sub-rule (1) of rule 51 or the words "<NAME> on election duty" under sub-rule(1) of rule 52, or (i) XXXXXX Provided that where the Returning Officer is satisfied that any such defect as is mentioned in clause (g) or clause  (h) has been caused by any mistake or failure on the part of a Presiding Officer, the ballot paper shall not be rejected merely on the ground of such defect.
Fact	XXXXXX"  The rejected ballot paper did not contain the signature of the Presiding Officer, though it contained the distinguishing mark of the polling station.
Fact	Rule 63(1)(h) dealing with rejection of ballot papers provides that in order to reject ballot papers it should be one not bearing "both the distinguishing mark and/or the signature of the Presiding Officer".
Fact	Therefore,  a harmonious construction of Rule 51 and 63 would show that in order to reject a postal ballot paper, the same should have lacked both the features, viz; the signature of the Presiding Officer as well as the distinguishing mark of the polling station.
Fact	In the instant case, it is evident that due to some mistake or inadvertence, the Presiding Officer did not sign these ballot papers.
Fact	The absence of signatures under the circumstances could not invalidate the ballot paper, which bore the distinguishing mark of the polling station.
Fact	Therefore, the Commissioner went wrong in declaring these votes as invalid.
Fact	That apart, it may be noted that had these votes been treated as valid by the Commissioner, even on re-count, the 1st respondent would have secured the highest number of votes.
Fact	The appellant-Election Petitioner could not make out a case for re- count of votes.
Fact	He filed the application for re-count before <ORG>ficer only after the declaration of result and that was rightly rejected by <ORG> ficer.
Fact	The appellant had no case that the illegality or irregularity, if any, committed had materially affected the result of the election.
RulingByLowerCourt	Taking all the aspects into consideration, we are of the view that the learned Single Judge was perfectly justified in holding that <ORG> erred in appointing a Commissioner and ordering the re-count of votes.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Counsel for the appellant contended that the powers of <ORG> are not as wide as the powers of <ORG> and, therefore, the learned Single Judge should not have set aside the order passed by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	We do not find any force in this contention.
RatioOfTheDecision	When there is error of jurisdiction or flagrant violation of the law laid down by this Court, by exercising the revisional powers, the court can set aside the order passed by the <ORG> to do justice between the parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	The illegality committed by <ORG> has been corrected by the Revisional Order.
RulingByPresentCourt	We find no merit in the present appeal and the same is  dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	Having regard to the facts and circumstances, there will be no order as to costs.
