Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	On 1-1-1952 a consignment of illicit opium was despatched by train from New Delhi to Madras and from Madras on to <NAME>.
Fact	Acting on some information that he had received, Mr. <NAME>, an Assistant Inspector of Excise who was also a Deputy Prohibition Officer, shadowed the article to <NAME>.
Fact	On 5-1-1952 one <NAME> went to the railway parcel office at <NAME>, tendered the way bill to the General Parcel Clerk and after signing in the delivery book took delivery of the parcel.
Fact	At that stage Mr. <NAME> detained him and questioned him.
Fact	He also seized the parcel which, on examination, was found to contain 33 seers of opium.
Fact	2.
Fact	On these allegations <NAME> and three others were prosecuted before the Sub-Magistrate, <NAME>.
Fact	At the trial Mr. <NAME> gave evidence for the prosecution.
Fact	When he was in the box the Assistant Public.
Fact	Prosecutor asked him what <NAME> had told him when questioned by the witness after his arrest.
Fact	To that  question the defence counsel took exception on the ground that Section 162, Cr.
Fact	P. C. prohibited such statements from being given in evidence for the prosecution. '
Fact	The learned Magistrate upheld the objection.
Fact	On that, the prosecution came upon in revision to this Court.
Fact	<NAME> who first heard the matter considered that an authoritative decision was necessary on the point that had been raised and so referred the following question to a Bench :  "The question that is raised in this petition is whether in view of Madras Act 32 of 1951 which was introduced as an amendment to Section 20 of the Opium Act (Central Act 1 of 1878), a confession made to a Prohibition Officer is admissible or not."
Fact	Before attempting to answer this question it is as well to examine Some of the provisions of the Opium Act (Central Act 1 of 1878).
Fact	Section 4 prohibits the possession, transport, import, export or sale of opium except under certain circumstances referred to in that Act.
Fact	Section 9 provides penalties for the contrav ention of Section 4 and some other sections.
Fact	Section 14, as it stood before it was amended in Madras, conferred on certain categories of officers belonging to the departments of <ORG>, <ORG>, <ORG>, Salt, Opium and Revenue, power of entry, search, seizure and arrest when they had reason to believe that opium liable to confiscation under the Act was kept or concealed in any building, vessel or enclosed space.
Fact	These powers, however, could be exercised only between sunrise and sunset.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 15 empowers every officer of the departments referred to in Section 14 to seize opium in transit or in any open place.
RatioOfTheDecision	It also confers powers of detention, search and arrest.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 20 requires that every person arrested and every thing seized under Section 14 or Section 15 shall be forwarded without delay to the officer in charge of the nearest <ORG> Station.
Fact	Section 21 requires an officer making an arrest or seizure under the Act to send a report of the matter to his immediate official superior within 48 hours there after,  3.
Fact	It will be noticed that under the Act, as it stood before it was amended, though the officers of the <ORG>, <ORG> and other departments were given powers to enter, search, seize and arrest, they had no power to investigate.
Fact	In 1951 <ORG> amended the Central Opium _Act in certain respects.
Fact	Officers of <ORG> were included in the categories of others referred to in Section 14 who could enter, search, seize and arrest on reasonable suspicion of a contravention of the provisions of the Act.
Fact	A new section, Section 20A was added which runs as follows :  "<ORG> may, by notification in the Official Gazette, invest any officer of <ORG>, or every officer belonging to any special class in that department, with the powers of an officer in charge of a police station for the investigation of offences under this Act."
Fact	4.
Fact	The result of the amendment is to confer on officers of the Prohibition department in relation to offences under the O pium Act , practically all the powers of a <ORG> Officer.
Fact	But, at the same time it will be noticed that the Amending Act does not call these officers Police Officers.
RatioOfTheDecision	5.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no exhaustive definition of the expression "Police Officer" in any of our statutes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Act 5 of 1861 (Indian Police Act ) merely says, "the word 'Police' shall include all persons who shall be enrolled under this Act."
RatioOfTheDecision	'Ex facie', this definition is not exhaustive, and it is of no help in answering the question that is now before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the absence of a statutory definition, and, apart from all authority, one would be tempted to say that a police officer is a person whom any statute or other provision of law calls such, or, on whom it confers all or substantially all the powers and imposes the duties of a police officer.
RatioOfTheDecision	If he is expressly called a police officer there is no difficulty whatsoever.
RatioOfTheDecision	If- he is not so called then the next step is to ask: what does the law require him to do?
RatioOfTheDecision	What are the duties imposed on him?
RatioOfTheDecision	and  what are the powers conferred on him?
RatioOfTheDecision	If these are substantially those of a police officer there need be no qualms in regarding him as one.
RatioOfTheDecision	If his powers and duties are con-fined to a particular extent of territory or to a particular subject-matter he will be a police officer only in respect of that territory or that subject-matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	The material thing to consider would be not the name given to him, nor the colour of the uniform he is required to wear, tout his functions, powers and duties.
RatioOfTheDecision	A police officer does not cease to be such merely because he is put into a white <ORG> uniform instead of one in khaki drill; a medicine will be just the same whether it is packaged in a glass jar or a plastic container.
RatioOfTheDecision	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	Support for the view that regard must be had not to the name but to the powers, duties and functions of the officer, is to be found in the decision reported in -- 'Someshwar H. Shelat, in re', AIR 1946 Mad 430 (A).
RatioOfTheDecision	In that case the question for decision was whether <NAME>  Tax Department, who had been empowered by '<ORG> in exercise of the powers conferred on them by Section 12 (3) of the Hoarding and Profiteering Prevention Ordinance was a police officer within the meaning and for the purpose of Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. and Section 25 of the Evid'ence Act.
Statute	The sub-section of the ordinance ran as follows :  "The Controller General and such Inspectors or other officers as may be empowered by <ORG> in this behalf shall, within the respective areas for which they are appointed, have power to investigate all offences punishable under this Ordinance, and in conducting any such investigation Shall, within the said areas, have all the powers, duties, privileges and liabilities of an officer in charge of a police station under the Cr.
Precedent	P. C., 1898, when investigating a cognizable offence within the limits of his station."
Precedent	7.
Precedent	A Bench of this Court had no hesitation in holding that an officer empowered under this section was a p olice officer.
Precedent	8.
Precedent	Mn <NAME>, the learned Public Prosecutor, drew our attention to six decisions of this Court which have a hearing on the Question before us.
Precedent	In -- 'Mahalakshmayya v. Emperor', 1932 Mad WN Cr 69 (B), <NAME> ruled that a statement by an accused person to an Excise Inspector in answer to questions put by him is not a confession made to a police officer within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act.
Precedent	In -- 'Doraiswami Nadar v. Emperor'.
Precedent	1934 Mad WN Cr 67 (C), <NAME> followed this case and ruled to the same effect.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	<CITATION_1809957> ', AIR 1938 Mad 460 (D), <NAME> followed the two earlier decisions just now referred to.
Precedent	Before that learned Judge the decisions in -- ' <CITATION_1882646> ', AIR 1927 Bom 4 (FB) (E) and -- 'Ameen Sharif v. Emperor', AIR 1934 Cal 580 (FB) (F) were cited.
Precedent	But lie distinguished them saying, "<ORG> <ORG> followed a Full Bench of <ORG>, whose decision naturally turned on the i nterpretation of the Bombay Excise Act which, in this respect, is similar to the Calcutta Act.
Precedent	The Madras Act, however, does not give excise officers quite the same powers as the Bombay and Calcutta Excise Acts, and for that reason this court has on three occasions held that for the purpose of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, an excise officer is not a police officer."
Precedent	No doubt he went on to add, "It appears to me that as Section 25 refers only to a police officer, a court should not extend it to other classes of officers merely on grounds of, similarity of function, especially in view of the fact that the Evidence Act was introduced at a time when the methods of the police were much more open to attack than they are now."
Precedent	10.
Precedent	In -- 'Mayilvahanam, In re', AIR 1947 Mad 308 (G), <NAME> had to consider the position of an Assistant Inspector of <ORG> and he took the same view that had been taken in the earlier decisions of this Court.
Precedent	See also -- 'Venkata Reddi, In re', AIR 1948 Mad 116 (H) and -- 'Vadivel  <NAME>, In re', (I).
Precedent	11.
Precedent	It seems to me that none of these decisions are in point because they belong to a time before the Central Opium Act was amended by <ORG> in 1951.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	In -- 'AIR 1927 Bom 4 (FB)' (E), the following question was formulated for the decision of the Court: "Is an Abkari Officer, who, in the conduct of investigation of an offence punishable under the Bombay Abkari Act, exercises the powers conferred by the Criminal Procedure Code , 1898, upon an officer in charge of a police station for the investigation of a cognizable offence, a police officer within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act?"
Precedent	All the learned Judges, there were five of them, were unanimously of the opinion that the question should be answered in the affirmative.
Precedent	A different view was taken by a Full Bench of three Judges of <ORG> in --'Radhakishun v. Emperor', AIR 1932 Pat 293 (SB) (J).
Precedent	Mr. <NAME>, the learned Public Prosecutor, placed special emphasis on this decis ion because the question that was decided in that case was whether a confession made before an Excise Inspector who, under the Dangerous Drugs Act (Central Act 2 of 1930) not only had the power to arrest and search but had also been invested by the local Government with the powers of an officer in charge of a police station for the investigation of an offence under that Act, is admissible evidence.
Precedent	Section 30 of the Central Act 2 of 1930 runs as follows:  "<ORG> may invest any officer of <ORG> or any class of such officers, with the powers of an officer in charge of a police station for the investigation of offences under this Act,"  Mr. <NAME> pointed out that Section 4 of the Madras Act 32 of 1951 which introduced Section 20-A into Central Act 1 of 1878 is practically a reproduction of Section 30 of the Dangerous Drugs Act.
Precedent	This circumstance no doubt makes the Patna case more apposite but it does not invert the reasoning in that case with any greater force."
Precedent	The Patna ca se was exhaustively considered by a Full Bench of five Judges in Calcutta.
Precedent	See -- 'AIR 1934 Cal 580 (FB)' (F) in which by a majority of 4 to 1 the learned Judges preferred the view of <ORG> to that of <ORG>.
Precedent	The report of that decision occupies 56 pages of the book and every conceivable aspect of the matter has been exhaustively discussed.
Precedent	It is held to discover much which can be profitably added to that discussion.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	On the view taken by the learned Judges In the Patna case and by <NAME> in the Calcutta case, I would make these observations.
Precedent	It appears to me that they looked too narrowly to the appearance of things and declined to look at the substance behind the appearance.
RatioOfTheDecision	They focussed attention on the label and would not look farther.
RatioOfTheDecision	I also consider that the learned Judges were being much too strict when they refused to consider why these rules of exclusion were embodied in Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	E, C. and Section 25 of the Evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that the grounds of e xclusion are not indicated either in the Evidence Act or the Criminal Procedure Code .
RatioOfTheDecision	But that does not seem a sufficient reason for refusing to consider that aspect of the matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has some times been said that he does not know the law who does not know the reason for the law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Surely, if you refuse to look at the reason for a particular rule of law how can any valid conclusion be reached?
Precedent	14.
Precedent	I prefer the view taken by <ORG> in Bombay; and in Calcutta, and would say that in relation to an offence under the Opium Act a Prohibition Officer on whom <ORG> has conferred the powers of an officer in charge of a police station, is a police officer for purposes of Section 162 , Cr.
Precedent	P. C. and Section 25 of the Evidence Act.
Precedent	15.
RatioOfTheDecision	It follows that the confession in this case is inadmissible in evidence.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result the revision petition is dismissed.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> This matter has now come before us having been referred by our learned brother <NAME> to resolve the judicial c onflict on the interpretation of Section 20 of the Opium Act.
Fact	The question to be answered by us is:  "Is the Excise Officer who exercises the powers conferred by the Criminal Procedure Code in charge of police station in the conduct of an investigation of an offence against excise laws a police officer within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and Section 162 , Cr.
Fact	P. C."  17.
Fact	The facts relevant for the purpose of this enquiry are the following: It is alleged for the prosecution that on 1-1-1952 a parcel was booked from New Delhi to Madras by train from where the same was sent on the morning of 5-1-1952 to Chidambaram.
Fact	At this place, the first accused took delivery of the parcel at the instance of accused 2 to 4.
Fact	When the first accused was taking it out of the parcel office, <NAME>, an Assistant Inspector of Excise caught hold of him and on an examination it was found to contain 33 seers of opium.
Fact	After investigation, a charge sheet was laid against the first accused for possession of opium punish able under Section 9 (a) of the Opium Act and against accused 2 to 4 under Section 9 (b) of the said Act for transporting opium.
Fact	In the course of examination of <NAME> he wanted to prove a statement made by the first accused to him which was reduced to writing.
Fact	An objection was taken on behalf of the accused to the admissibility of the statement on the ground that the officer to whom the statement was made was a police officer within the meaning of Section 162 , Cr.
RulingByLowerCourt	P. C. and Section 25 of the Evidence Act The objection was upheld by the Stationary Sub-Magistrate of Chidambaram, and the statement recorded by <ORG> from the first accused was ruled out as being inadmissible.
Fact	It Is against this that the present revision petition has been filed by the State Government.
Argument	18.
Argument	In support of this petition, it is urged by the learned Public Prosecutor that an excise officer is not a police officer within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and the prohibition enacted therein cannot be extended to excise-o fficers.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	The question whether an excise officer was a police officer and the confession made to him in the course of investigation was to-be excluded by virtue of the provisions of Section 25 of the Evidence Act came up for consideration in a number of cases in this Court.
Precedent	In -- '1932 Mad WN Cr 69' (B) <NAME> held that an admission made by an accused person to an excise inspector could not be ruled out as-it could not be regarded as a confession made to a police officer coming under Section 25 of the Evidence Act.
Precedent	To the same effect is the ruling, of <NAME> in -- '1934 Mad WN Cr 67' (C).
Precedent	In -- 'AIR 1938 Mad 460' (D) <NAME> took the same view although there was no reference to the two earlier case's.
Precedent	Referring to a Calcutta-case which will be alluded to presently and which expressed the opinion that an excise officer was a police officer within the ambit of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, the learned Judge distinguished that case on the ground that it was based on Special provisions  of the Bengal Excise Act which made excise officers for purposes of excise offences police officers.
Precedent	20.
Precedent	The scope of a statement made to an assistant inspector of customs by an accused person in the course of an investigation fell to-be considered by <NAME> in -- 'AIR 194T Mad 308' (G).
Precedent	The learned Judge on a review of the earlier decisions of this Court held that the statement did not come within the prohibition of Section 25 of the Evidence Act.
Precedent	In a more recent case <NAME> (as he then was) in -- 'AIR 1948 Mad 116' (H) referred to the earlier decisions of this Court and expressed his concurrence with them.
Precedent	21.
Precedent	It must be noted that all these decisions were given on the interpretation of the Opium Act as it stood then.
Precedent	Section 20 of the Opium Act provided:  "Every person arrested and thing seized, under Section 14 or Section 15 , shall be forwarded" without delay to the officer in charge of the nearest police station; and every person arrested and thing seized under Section 19 shall be-forward ed without delay to the officer by whom the warrant was issued....."   Section 14 of the Act as amended in 1947, runs thus:  "Any officer of any of the departments of <ORG>, <ORG>, <ORG>, <ORG>, <ORG>,.
Precedent	Opium or <ORG> superior in rank to a peon, guard, or constable, who may in right of his office be authorised by <ORG> in this behalf, and who has reason to believe, from personal knowledge or from information given by any person and taken down in writing, that opium liable to confiscation under this Act is.........,..kept or conceiled in any building, vessel or enclosed places may, between sunrise and sunset:  (a) enter into any such building, vessel or place;  (b) in case of resistance, break open any door and remove any other obstacle to such entry;  (c) seize Such opium........... and any other thing which he has reason to believe to be liable to confiscation under Section 11 or any other law for the time being in force relating to opium, and  (d) detain and search, and, it he thin ks proper, arrest any person whom he has reason to believe to be guilty of any offence relating to such opium under this or any other law for the time being in force."
Precedent	22.
Precedent	Section 15 confers on an officer of the said departments powers to seize in any open place or in transit any opium and detain, search and arrest any person who is believed to be guilty of an offence against this or any other such law.
Precedent	23.
Precedent	It is thus seen that any of the officers mentioned in Section 14 of the Opium Act has only power to seize the articles involved in a crime whether they are in an enclosed place or an open place and detain, search or arrest any person Suspected of having committed any offence against the statute.
Precedent	He has no power to investigate into these crimes and he can only forward the person and the things seized without any delay to the officer in charge of the nearest police station.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	In 1951 <ORG> amended Section 20 of the Opium Act by inserting Section 20-A by Madras Act 32 of  1951 by which the officers mentioned in the sections already referred to were invested with certain powers of a police officer for investigation.
Precedent	Section 20-A runs thus:  "20-A--The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, invest any officer of the Prohibition department, or every officer belonging to any specified class in that <ORG>, with the powers of an officer in charge of a police station for the investigation of offences under this Act."
Precedent	25.
Fact	Now the question for consideration is whether this amendment has, in any way, .
RatioOfTheDecision	altered the position in regard to the state of authority bearing on the subject.
RatioOfTheDecision	That it does bring about a change in respect of powers to be exercised by those officers in the detection of crimes is beyond question.
RatioOfTheDecision	Subsequent to this amendment, the necessity to forward the articles seized and the person apprehended to the nearest police station is dispensed with and the officer concerned himself is authorised to investigate into the matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the controve rsy is whether this has the effect of bringing such an officer within the purview of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. Section 25 of the Evidence Act says:  "No confession made to a police officer shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence."
RatioOfTheDecision	While Section 162 (1), Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. enacts:  "162 (I): No statement made by any person to a police officer in the course of an investigation under this chapter shall, if reduced into writing, be signed by the person making it; nor shall any such statement or any record thereof, whether in a police diary or otherwise, or any part o£ such statement or record be used for any purpose (save as hereinafter provided) at any inquiry or trial in respect of any offence under investigation at the time when such statement was made;"  26.
RatioOfTheDecision	The word 'police officer' is not defined anywhere in the Evidence Act while we have only the definition of the "officer in charge of the police station" in the Criminal Procedure Code .
RatioOfTheDecision	From it we do not get any  help.
Precedent	Nor is the definition of a "police officer" in the Identification of Prisoners Act , that is, Act 33 of 1920 of any assistance to us in the determination of, the question before us.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	A similar question arose on the provisions of the Bombay Abkari Act before a Full Bench of <ORG> in -- 'AIR 1927 Bom 4 (FB)' (E).
Precedent	The section of the Act which the learned Judges of the Full Bench had to consider was Section 41 which provided that "every Abkari officer not below such rank as Government may prescribe shall within the area for which he is appointed have power to investigate all offences punishable under this Act."
Precedent	Sub-section (2) provided that "such officer shall in the conduct of such investigaton exercise the powers conferred by the Criminal Procedure Code , 1898, upon an officer in charge of a police station for the investigation of a cognizable offence."
Precedent	28.
Precedent	It is seen that this is analogous to the provisions of Section 20-A of the Opium Act as, amended by Madras Act 32 of 1951.
Precedent	In t hat case, the learned Judges decided that an Abkari Officer invested with powers of an officer in charge of the police station under Section 41 of the Abkari Act was a police officer coming under the rule embodied in Section 25 of the Evidence Act-The ground for the decision was that as the <ORG> had deliberately conferred upon an Abkari Officer substantially all the powers of a police officer, he had in effect become a police officer coming within the purview of Section 25 of the Evidence Act.
Precedent	For this reason it was held there that any confession made to such an officer under the Abkari Act or the Criminal Procedure Code was inadmissible in evidence.
Precedent	The observations of <NAME> at page 8 are apposite in this context:  "In this connection, I should like to point out that it was open to the <ORG> or to <ORG> to do one of two or three things.
Precedent	It could detatch ordinary police officers to investigate excise offences.
Precedent	Or on the other hand, it could appoint other officers of <ORG> or new  officers to perform the duties of investigation and arrest and so on, which had previously been performed by ordinary police officers.
Precedent	Whichever course was adopted, any alleged offence would, in effect, be investigated by persons in the position of policemen, In this very case it would appear that the effect of the above sections of the Abkari Act is that certain duties, which previously fell upon ordinary Police Officers, are in fact now being carried out by the Abkari officers, who have been given these particular police-powers."
Precedent	29.
Precedent	In support of his conclusion the learned Chief Justice relied on the dictum of Sir <NAME> in -- ' <CITATION_1055970> ', 1 Cal 207 (K) that the word "police officer" was not used in Section 25 o£ the Evidence Act , in a technical sense but was used in a comprehensive and popular sense.
Precedent	Referring to earlier rulings of that <ORG> and of the Calcutta High <ORG> the- learned Chief Justice distinguished them on the ground that they were based on the language of Section 20 of  the Opium Act and the provisions of the Bengal Abkari Act which were widely different from those of Section 41 of the Bombay Abkari Act.
Precedent	30.
Precedent	<NAME> one of the learned Judges of the Full Bench in.
Precedent	the course of his judgment stated that an officer contemplated by Section 41 , Sub-section (1) was virtually in the same position as a police officer in the matter of investigation of the offences under that Act.
Precedent	All that was meant by the expression "police officer" in Section 25 of the Evidence Act was "an officer who exercises the powers of the police conferred on him by law" by whatever name he is called.
Precedent	The other three learned Judges also expressed their concurrence with the opinion mentioned above.
Precedent	The principle enunciated in that ruling is applicable to the case before us as the provisions of Section 20-A of the Opium Act bear a close resemblance to those of Section 41 of the Bombay Abkari Act, and I express my respectful accord with it.
Precedent	31.
Precedent	<ORG> reached an opposite conclusion in -- 'AIR 193 2 Pat 293 (SB)' (J).
Precedent	The point which <ORG> of <ORG> considered was whether an Inspector of Excise acting in the course of; his duties was a police officer within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and whether a confession made to him was admissible.
Precedent	The learned Judge's answered the point in the negative.
Precedent	In their view an Excise Officer could not be regarded as a police officer merely because he was exercising certain functions in the conduct of investigation of an excise offence.
Precedent	The learned Chief Justice (Courtney'-Terrell C.
Precedent	J.)
Precedent	observes that he found himself "in complete disagreement with the arguments which found favour" in the Bombay case.
Precedent	According to him, there was a fallacy in the judgment of <ORG> which was attributable to two causes.
Precedent	One was the misconception of the ruling in -- '1 Cal 207' (K) and the other the adoption of an erroneous canon of construction of statutes, that is, the consideration of what is supposed to be the object of Section 25 o f the Evidence Act, by the learned Judges of <ORG>.
Precedent	In this view of the matter the learned Chief Justice thought that the opinion expressed in -- 'AIR 1927 Bom 4 (FB)' (E) was an erroneous one.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	<NAME> who agreed with <NAME> observed that as laid down in --'1 Cal 207' (K), it was well settled that the term "police officer" should not be construed in a technical sense but in its more popular and comprehensive sense, while the other learned Judge, <NAME> was of the view that the word "police officer" connotes nothing more or less than a member of the police force and he did not think that the observation of <NAME> was intended to go beyond that.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is clear that this dictum of <NAME> is plainly opposed to that of <NAME> in -- '1 Cal 207' (K) in spite of the learned Judge's attempt to reconcile the two dicta.
RatioOfTheDecision	It does not appear to me that the Judges of <ORG> in any way misunderstood the scope of the dictum in -- '1 Cal 207' (K).
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> w as placed by <NAME> in the Bombay case on -- '1 Cal 207' (K) only for the purpose of showing that the term "police officer", was not used in a restricted sense but has a wider import, Nor can I bring myself to agree with <NAME> that the Judges of <ORG> adopted an erroneous canon of construction.
RatioOfTheDecision	No doubt a statute has to be construed with reference to the language employed therein and it is not permissible to speculate as to the object or the intention of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	But when the meaning of an expression is not plain and it is not possible to ascertain the meaning of a term or to gather its import from the statute itself, I think it is permissible to resort to extrinsic guides.
Precedent	In this context the remarks of Lord <NAME> in -- 'Keats Lewis Merthyr v. Consolidated Colliers', (1911) AC 641 (L) are apposite:  "In the construction of a statement it is, of course, at all times and under all circumstances permissible to have regard to the state of things existing at the time  the statute was passed, and to the evils which as appears from its provisions it was designed to remedy."
Precedent	33.
Precedent	It may be recalled that the term "police officer" is not defined in the Evidence Act or in the Criminal Procedure Code .
Precedent	So in trying to understand the signification of that expression it is perfectly legitimate to have regard to the setting and the context in which Section 25 of the Evidence Act was enacted.
Precedent	With great respect to the Judges who decided -- 'AIR 1932 Pat 293' (J) I am unable to appreciate their criticism of -- 'AIR 1927 Bom 4 (FB)' (E).
Precedent	It looks to me that the legislature must have used that expression in a larger sense than that attributed to it by <ORG>.
Precedent	34.
Precedent	Subsequent to the ruling of <ORG> an identical point arose for consideration before a Full Bench of five Judges of <ORG> in -- 'AIR 1934 Pat 580 (FB)' (F).
Precedent	There the conviction of the accused persons under Section 9 of the Opium Act was mainly based on a confession said to have b een made by them to an <ORG> Inspector.
Precedent	The admissibility of this confession was raised in appeals preferred by the accused against their convictions.
Precedent	In view of the conflict of judicial opinion, the matter was placed before <ORG> of five Judges.
Precedent	The answer given by <ORG> (by a majority) was that the <ORG> in using the term "police officer" in Section 25 of the Evidence Act did not intend to exclude from its meaning <ORG> officers exercising powers of detection and investigation of crimes committed against excise laws.
Precedent	There is an exhaustive discussion of the topic and the opposing views expressed in -- 'AIR 1927 Bom 4 (FB) (E)' and -- 'AIR 1932 Pat 293 (J)' are also considered.
Precedent	Four of the learned Judges approved of the rule of law stated in -- 'AIR 1927 Bom 4 (FB)' (E).
Precedent	The reasoning in --'AIR 1932 Pat 293 (SB) (J)' was not acceptable to them.
Precedent	35.
Precedent	The leading judgment of <NAME> a very instructive one.
Precedent	The learned Judge reviewed the case law bearing on the subject and also con sidered the reason of the rule enacted in Section 25 of the Evidence Act.
Precedent	Discussing the connotation of the term "police officer" in the-light of the relevant provisions of Police Act 5 of 1861, he Stated that police officers were officers whose duty was to prevent and detect crimes.
Precedent	The learned Judge also referred to one of the meanings given to that expression in <ORG> viz., "The civil force, to which is entrusted the duty of maintaining public order, enforcing regulation for the prevention and punishment of breaches of the law, and detecting crime; construed as plural, the members of a police force; the constabulary of a locality as throwing light on the import of that term."
Precedent	36.
Precedent	The position was summed up by the learned Judge at page 586 thus:  "The powers and duties of excise officers investigating offences have been gradually brought more and more on a line with those of the officers of the police force, and they have been made police officers for the purposes of such investigation in a ll possible manner," 37.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> agreed with the opinion expressed by <NAME> while <NAME> struck a note of dissent.
Precedent	38.
Precedent	<NAME> in the course of his judgment remarked that in an excise case, an excise officer is the real police officer and the only police officer in the case.
Precedent	He also pointed out that in the earlier Calcutta cases in which the view was taken that an excise officer was not a police officer for purposes of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, the question of an excise officer exercising the powers of a police officer was not discussed and that except in one of them the attention of the learned Judges was not attracted to the material provisions of the Excise Act .
Precedent	39.
Precedent	In my judgment, the view taken in --'AIR 1934 Cal 580 (FB)' (F) is a correct and a sound one and I am wholly in agreement with the reasoning adopted in that case.
Precedent	40.
Precedent	I will now refer to a ruling of a Bench of our <ORG> in -- 'AIR 1946 Mad 430' (A).
Precedent	The statutory provision which formed the sub ject-matter of inquiry before the Bench consisting of Sir <NAME> and <NAME> was Sub-section 3 of Section 12 of the Hoarding and Profiteering Prevention Ordinance 53 of 1944.
Precedent	Sub-section (3) of Section 12 reads as follows:  "The Controller General and such inspectors or other officers as may be empowered by the Central or Provincial Government in this behalf shall within the respective areas for which they are appointed, have power to investigate all offences punishable under this Ordinance and in conducting any such investigation shall, within the said areas, have all the powers) duties, privileges and liabilities of an officer in charge of a police station under the Criminal Procedure Code , 1898, when investigating a cognizable offence within the limits of his station."
Precedent	41.
RatioOfTheDecision	By virtue of this provision <ORG> gave certain officers of <ORG> power to investigate offences within their respective jurisdictions.
RatioOfTheDecision	With reference to these provisions t he following question was submitted by the Chief Presidency Magistrate under Section 432 , Cr.
Fact	P. C. for the opinion of the Court:  "Whether a Special _officer of <ORG> who has been empowered in this behalf by <ORG> in exercise of the powers conferred on them by Section 12 (3) of the Hoarding and Profiteering Prevention Ordinance introduced by the amending Ordinance No.
Fact	43 of 1944, is a police officer within the meaning and for the purpose of Section 162 , Cr.
Fact	P. C. and Section 25 of the Evidence Act."
Fact	On an interpretation of the relevant provisions the learned Judges gave the answer in the affirmative.
Fact	In the course of the order it was remarked thus:  "If an investigating officer is a police officer within and for the purpose of Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. this practice is obviously illegal.
RatioOfTheDecision	That he is a police officer within the meaning of the section we have no doubt whatever.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 12 (3) of the Hoarding and Profiteering Prevention Ordinance expressly g ives him all the powers, duties and privileges of an officer in charge of a police station under the Criminal Procedure Code , 1898, when investigating a cognizable offence within the limits of his station.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore he has the full status of a police officer and his powers and duties must be limited to those of a police officer under the Criminal Procedure Code , which means that he has no right in an investigation under the Ordinance to require a person to Sign a statement and where such a statement is reduced to writing it can only be used in accordance with the provisions of Section 162 , Cr.
Precedent	P. C. or Section 27 of the Evidence Act."
Precedent	42.
Precedent	The ruling in this case is applicable to the present case with equal force, as Section 20-A of the Opium Act are in 'pari materia' with the provisions of Sub-section (3) of Section 12 of the Hoarding and Profiteering Prevention Ordinance.
Precedent	I respectfully adopt the reasoning in this case.
Precedent	This decision was distinguished by <NAME> in -- AIR 1947 Mad 308' (G) already  referred to on the ground that it was based exclusively on the phraseology employed in Sub-section (3) of Section 12 of the said Ordinance which specifically mentioned that the officers concerned should have all the powers, duties, privileges and liabilities of an officer-in-charge of a police station.
Precedent	43.
Precedent	It is clear from these observations that <NAME> rested his conclusion in the case last mentioned on the absence of provision investing the excise officers in the detection of excise offences with the powers of a police officer in charge of the police station.
Precedent	As already pointed out that was a case prior to Madras Act 32 of 1951 which amended Section 20 of the Opium Act.
Precedent	44.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> (as he then was) in --'AIR 1948 Mad 116' (H) to which reference had been already made, in distinguishing Calcutta and Bombay Full Bench decisions in -- 'AIR 1934 Cal 580 (FB)' (F) and -- 'AIR 1927 Bom 4 (FB)' (E) stated that an identical conclusion could be reached if there was a similar provision in any other enact ment.
RatioOfTheDecision	This statement makes it abundantly clear that the learned Judge would have reached the conclusion that an excise officer was a police officer for purposes of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. if provisions similar to Section 20-A of the Opium Act were in force then.
RatioOfTheDecision	45.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the light of the above rulings and on a careful consideration of the relevant statutory provisions, I have reached the conclusion that the term "police officer" is used in Section 25 of the Evidence Act with reference to the functions exercised by the officer and not as an officer of the police department.
RatioOfTheDecision	It only means an officer exercising certain powers and is not confined to an officer belonging to the police department.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my opinion, it is the exercise of functions like the detection of crimes which involves the holding of investigation that marked out these officers for special treatment in regard to the confessions made to them in the course of investigation.
RatioOfTheDecision	46.
RatioOfTheDecision	I may add, In recent times, the need  to pass laws intended to regulate social and economic life of the people and to add to the revenues of the country as well, has indeed become very great This had led to the <ORG> investing the officers appointed for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these enactments, to check the evasion thereof and to prevent and detect crimes created under various enactments and to bring the offenders to justice, with powers of investigation.
RatioOfTheDecision	The insertion of Section 20-A of the Opium Act is one of such instances.
RatioOfTheDecision	If these officers are invested with the same powers and are in the same position as the officers of the police department in relation to the detection of crimes by holding investigations, there does not seem to be any rational basis, for distinction and for not extending the rule in Section 25 of the Evidence Act and Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. to them, especially when the functions exercised by both categories are essentially the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my opinion, it was not so much against an officer of a p articular department that the prohibition under Section 25 of the Evidence Act is enacted and the restrictions contained in Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. are placed as the desire to prevent the use of the statements made to officers engaged in the investigation of crimes to the prejudice of the accused persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	47.
Precedent	It is also to be noted that it is Ch.
Precedent	XIV, Cr.
Precedent	P. C. that deals with the investigations, and when the power of an officer in charge of the police station for the purpose of investigation is conferred upon an officer under Section 20-A of the Opium Act, all the sections of that Chapter should be held applicable to such a case.
Precedent	Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. being one of the sections of that Chapter is equally applicable to a statement made to a prohibition or excise officer in the conduct of investigation.
RatioOfTheDecision	48.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances, the conclusion I have reached is that an excise officer invested with the powers of an officer in charge of a police station for investigation of offences under Section 20-A of th e Opium Act is a "police officer" coming within the purview of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. and any confession made to him in the course of investigation is inadmissible under Section 25 of the Evidence Act and the statements made to such an officer under Section 162 , Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C. can be used only in the manner enacted therein.
RatioOfTheDecision	49.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result the revision petition is dismissed.
