Fact	CASE NO.
Fact	: Writ Petition (civil) 317 of 1993 PETITIONER: <ORG> & Ors.
Fact	RESPONDENT: State of Karnataka & Ors.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 31/10/2002 BENCH: B.N.KIRPAL CJI & G.B.PATTANAIK & V.N.KHARE & <NAME> & S.S.M.QUADRI JUDGMENT:  <ORG> & ARIJIT PASAYAT & JUDGMENT W I T H Writ Petition (Civil) Nos.
Fact	252 of 1979, 54-57, 2228 of 1981, 2460, 2582, 2583-84,3362, 3517, 3602, 3603, 3634, 3635, 3636, 8398, 8391, 5621, 5035, 3701, 3702,3703, 3704, 3715, 3728, 4648, 4649, 2479, 2480, 2547 and 3475 of 1982, 7610,4810, 9839 and 9683-84 of 1983, 12622-24 of 1984, 119 and 133 of 1987, 620 of 1989, 133 of 1992, 746, 327, 350, 613, 597, 536, 626, 444, 417, 523, 474, 485, 484,355, 525, 469, 392, 629, 399, 531, 603, 702, 628, 663, 284, 555, 343, 596, 407, 737,738, 747, 479, 610, 627, 685, 706, 726, 598, 482 and 571 of 1993, 295, 764 and D. No.
Fact	1741 of 1994, 331, 446 and 447 of 1995, 364 and 435 of 1996, 456, 454, 447 and 485 of 1997, 356, 357 and 328 of 1998, 199, 294, 279, 35, 181, 373, 487 and 23 of 1999, 561 of  2000, 6 and 132 of 2002, Civil Appeal Nos.
Fact	1236-1241 and 2392 of 1977, 687 of 1976, 3179, 3180, 3181, 3182, 1521-56, 3042-91 of 1979, 2929-31, 1464 of 1980, 2271 and 2443-46 of 1981, 4020, 290 and 10766 of 1983, 5042 and 5043 of 1989, 6147 and 5381 of 1990, 71, 72 and 73 of 1991, 1890-91, 2414 and 2625 of 1992, 4695-4746, 4754-4866 of 1993, 5543-5544 of 1994, 8098- 8100 and 11321 of 1995, 4654-4658 of 1997, 608, 3543 and 3584-3585 of 1998, 5053-5054 of 2000, 5647, 5648-5649, 5650, 5651, 5652, 5653-5654, 5655, 5656 of 2001 and 2334 of 2002, <ORG> (C) Nos.
Fact	9950 and 9951 of 1979, 11526 and 863 of 1980, 12408 of 1985, 8844 of 1986, 12320 of 1987, 14437, 18061-62 of 1993, 904-05 and 11620 of 1994, 23421 of 1995, 4372 of 1996, 10360 and 10664 of 1997, 1216, 9779-9786, 6472-6474 and 9793 of 1998, 5101, 4480 and 4486 of 2002 T.C.
Fact	(Civil) No.
Fact	26 of 1990 and T.P.
Precedent	(Civil) Nos.
Precedent	1013-14 of 1993.
Argument	DELIVERED BY:  <ORG>, <ORG> & <ORG> & <ORG>, C.J.
Argument	1.
RatioOfTheDecision	India is a land of divers ity -- of different castes, peoples, communities, languages, religions and culture.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although these people enjoy complete political freedom, a vast part of the multitude is illiterate and lives below the poverty line.
RatioOfTheDecision	The single most powerful tool for the upliftment and progress of such diverse communities is eduction.
RatioOfTheDecision	The state, with its limited resources and slow-moving machinery, is unable to fully develop the genius of the Indian people very often t he impersonal education that is imparted by the state, devoid of adequate material content that will make the students self-reliant only succeeds in producing potential pen-pushers, as a result of which sufficient jobs are not available.
RatioOfTheDecision	2.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is in this scenario where there is a lack of quality education and adequate number of schools and colleges that private educational institutions have been established by educationists, philanthropists and religious and linguistic minorities.
Argument	Their grievance is that the necessary and unproductive load on their back in the  form of governmental control, by way of rules and regulations, has thwarted the progress of quality education.
Argument	It is their contention that the government must get off their back, and that they should be allowed to provide quality education uninterrupted by unnecessary rules and regulations, laid down by the bureaucracy for its own self-importance.
Argument	The private educational institutions, both aided and unaided, established by minorities and non- minorities, in their desire to break free of the unnecessary shackles put on their functioning as modern educational institutions and seeking to impart quality education for the benefit of the community for whom they were established, and others, have filed the present writ petitions and appeals asserting their right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice unhampered by rules and regulations that unnecessarily impinge upon their autonomy.
Argument	3.
Fact	The hearing of these cases has had a chequered history.
Fact	Writ Petition No.
Fact	350 of 1993 filed by the I <ORG> and connected petitions were placed before a <ORG> of 5 Judges.
Fact	As the <ORG> was prima facie of the opinion that Article 30 did not clothe a minority educational institution with the power to adopt its own method of selection and the correctness of the decision of this <ORG> in St. Stephen's <CITATION_13862901> was doubted, it was directed that the questions that arose should be authoritatively answered by a larger <ORG>.
Fact	These cases were then placed before a <ORG> of 7 Judges.
Fact	The questions framed were recast and on 6th February, 1997, the <ORG> directed that the matter be placed a <ORG> of at least 11 Judges, as it was felt that in view of the Forty-Second Amendment to the Constitution, whereby "education" had been included in Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule, the question of who would be regarded as a "minority" was required to be considered because the earlier case laws related to the pre-amendment era, when education was only in the State List.
Fact	When the cases came  up for hearing before an eleven Judge <ORG>, during the course of hearing on 19th March, 1997, the following order was passed:-  "Since a doubt has arisen during the course of our arguments as to whether this <ORG> would feel itself bound by the ratio propounded in -- In Re Kerala Education Bill, 1957 (1959 SCR 955) and the <CITATION_703393> , , it is clarified that this sized <ORG> would not feel itself inhibited by the views expressed in those cases since the present endeavour is to discern the true scope and interpretation of Article 30(1) of the Constitution, which being the dominant question would require examination in its pristine purity.
Fact	The factum is recorded."
Argument	4.
Argument	When the hearing of these cases commended, some questions out of the eleven referred for consideration were reframed.
Fact	We propose to give answers to these questions after examining the rival contentions on the issues arising therein.
Argument	5.
Argument	On behalf of all these institutions, the learned counsels have submitted that the Constitution provides  a fundamental right to establish and administer educational institutions.
Argument	With regard to non-minorities, the right was stated to be contained in Article 19(1)(g) and/or Article 26 , while in the case of linguistic and religious minorities, the submission was that this right was enshrined and protected by Article 30.
Argument	It was further their case that private educational institutions should have full autonomy in their administration.
Argument	While it is necessary for an educational institution to secure recognition or affiliation, and for which purpose rules and regulations or conditions could be prescribed pertaining to the requirement of the quality of education to be provided, e.g., qualifications of teachers, curriculum to be taught and the minimum facilities which should be available for the students, it was submitted that the state should not have a right to interfere or lay down conditions with regard to the administration of those institutions.
Argument	In particular, objection was taken to the nominations by the state on  the governing bodies of the private institutions, as well as to provisions with regard to the manner of admitting students, the fixing of the fee structure and recruitment of teachers through state channels.
Argument	6.
Argument	The counsels for these educational institutions, as well as the Solicitor General of India, appearing on behalf of <ORG>, urged that the decision of this Court in <CITATION_1775396> .
Argument	case required reconsideration.
Argument	It was submitted that the scheme that had been framed in <NAME> case had imposed unreasonable restrictions on the administration of the private educational institutions, and that especially in the case of minority institutions, the right guaranteed to them under Article 30(1) stood infringed.
Argument	It was also urged that the object that was sought to be achieved by the scheme was, in fact, not achieved.
Argument	7.
Argument	On behalf of the private minority institutions, it was submitted that on the correct interpretation of the various provisions of the Constitution, and Articles 29 and 30  in particular, the minority institutions have a right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Argument	The use of the phrase "of their choice" in Article 30(1) clearly postulated that the religious and linguistic minorities could establish and administer any type of educational institution, whether it was a school, a degree college or a professional college; it was argued that such an educational institution is invariably established primarily for the benefit of the religious and linguistic minority, and it should be open to such institutions to admit students of their choice.
Argument	While Article 30(2) was meant to ensure that these minority institutions would not be denied aid on the ground that they were managed by minority institutions, it was submitted that no condition which curtailed or took away the minority character of the institution while granting aid could be imposed.
Argument	In particular, it was submitted that Article 29(2) could not be applied or so interpreted as to completely obliterat e the right of the minority institution to grant admission to the students of its own religion or language.
Argument	It was also submitted that while secular laws relating to health, town planning, etc., would be applicable, no other rules and regulations could be framed that would in any way curtail or interfere with the administration of the minority educational institution.
Argument	It was emphasized by the learned counsel that the right to administer an educational institution included the right to constitute a governing body, appoint teachers and admit students.
Argument	It was further submitted that these were the essential ingredients of the administration of an educational institution, and no fetter could be put on the exercise of the right to administer.
Argument	It was conceded that for the purpose of seeking recognition, qualifications of teachers could be stipulated, as also the qualification of the students who could be admitted; at the same time, it was argued that the manner and mode of appointment of teachers and selection of st udents had to be within the exclusive domain of the autochthonal institution.
Argument	8.
Argument	On behalf of the private non-minority unaided educational institutions, it was contended that since secularism and equality were part of the basic structure of the Constitution the provisions of the Constitution should be interpreted so that the right of the private non-minority unaided institutions were the same as that of the minority institutions.
Argument	It was submitted that while reasonable restrictions could be imposed under Article 19(6 ), such private institutions should have the same freedom of administration of an unaided institution as was sought by the minority unaided institutions.
Argument	9.
Argument	The learned Solicitor General did not dispute the contention that the right in establish an institution had been confined on the non-minorities by Articles 19 and 26 and on the religious and linguistic minorities by Article 30.
Argument	He agreed with the submission of the counsels for the appellants that the Unni Krishnan decision required reconside ration, and that the private unaided educational institutions were entitled to greater autonomy.
Argument	He, however, contended that Article 29(2) was applicable to minority institutions, and the claim of the minority institutions that they could preferably admit students of their own religion or language to the exclusion of the other communities was impermissible.
Argument	In other words, he submitted that Article 29(2) made it obligatory even on the minority institutions not to deny admission on the ground of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Argument	10.
Argument	Several States have totally disagreed with the arguments advanced by the learned Solicitor General with regard to the applicability of Article 29(2) and 30(1).
Argument	The States of Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh and Rajasthan have submitted that the words "their choice" in Article 30(1) enabled the minority institutions to admit members of the minority community, and that the inability of the minority institutions to admit others as a result of the exercise of "their choice" w ould not amount to a denial as contemplated under Article 29(2).
Precedent	The <ORG> of Andhra Pradesh has not expressly referred to the inter-play between Article 29(2) and Article 30(1 ), but has stated that "as the minority educational institutions are intended to benefit the minorities, a restriction that at least 50 per cent of the students admitted should come from the particular minority, which has established the institution should be stipulated as a working rule", and that an institution which fulfilled the following conditions should be regarded as minority educational institutions:  1.
Precedent	All the office bearers, members of the executive committee of the society must necessarily belong to the concerned religious/linguistic minority without exception.
Precedent	2.
Precedent	The institution should admit only the concerned minority candidates to the extent of sanctioned intake permitted to be filed by the respective managements.
Precedent	and that the <ORG> "ought to permit the <ORG> to regulate the intake in minority educational institutions  with due regard to the need of the community in the area which the institution is intended to serve.
Precedent	In no case should such intake exceed 50% of the total admissions every year."
Precedent	11.
Precedent	The State of Kerala has submitted, again without express reference to Article 29(2 ), "that the constitutional right of the minorities should be extended to professional education also, but while limiting the right of the minorities to admit students belonging to their community to 50% of the total intake of each minority institution".
Precedent	12.
Precedent	The State of Karnataka has submitted that "aid is not a matter of right but receipt thereof does not in any way dilute the minority character of the institution.
Precedent	Aid can be distributed on non-discriminatory conditions but in so far as minority institutions are concerned, their core rights will have to be protected.
Precedent	13.
Fact	On the other hand, the States of Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have submitted that Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2 ), arguing  that a minority institution availing of state aid loses the right to admit members of its community on the basis of the need of the community.
Fact	14.
Fact	The Attorney General, pursuant to the request made by the court, made submissions on the constitutional issues in a fair and objective manner.
Fact	We recorded our appreciation for the assistance rendered by him and the other learned counsel.
Argument	15.
Precedent	We may observe here that the counsels were informed that it was not necessary for this Bench to decide four of the questions framed relating to the issue of who could be regarded as religious minorities; no arguments were addressed in respect thereto.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	From the arguments aforesaid, five main issues arise for consideration in these cases, which would encompass all the eleven questions framed that are required to be answered.
Precedent	17.
Precedent	We will first consider the arguments of the learned counsels under these heads before dealing with the questions now remaining to be answered.
Precedent	1.
Precedent	IS THERE A FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT TO SET UP EDUCATION AL INSTITUTION AND IF SO, UNDER WHICH PROVISION?
Precedent	18.
Precedent	With regard to the establishment of educational institutions, three Articles of the Constitution come into play.
Precedent	Article 19(1)(g) gives the right to all the citizens to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business; this right is subject to restrictions that may be placed under Article 19(6).
Precedent	Article 26 gives the right to every religious denomination to establish and maintain an institution for religious purposes, which would include an educational institution.
Precedent	Article 19(1)(g) and Article 26 , therefore, confer rights on all citizens and religious denominations to establish and maintain educational institutions.
Precedent	There was no serious dispute that the majority community as well as linguistic and religious minorities would have a right under Article 19(1)   (g) and 26 to establish educational institutions.
Precedent	In addition, Article 30(1 ), in no uncertain terms, gives the right to the religious and linguistic minorities to establish an d administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	We will first consider the right to establish and administer an educational institution under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution and deal with the right to establish educational institutions under Article 26 and 30 in the next part of the judgment while considering the rights of the minorities.
Precedent	20.
Precedent	Article 19(1)(g) employs four expressions, viz., profession, occupation, trade and business.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their fields may overlap, but each of them does have a content of its own.
RatioOfTheDecision	Education is per se regarded as an activity that is charitable in nature [ <CITATION_212098> ,.
RatioOfTheDecision	Education has so far not been regarded as a trade or business where profit is the motive.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if there is any doubt about whether education is a profession or not, it does appear that education will fall within the meaning of the expression "occupation".
Statute	Article 19(1)   (g) uses the four expressions so as to cover all activities of a citizen in respect of which income or profit is generated, a nd which can consequently be regulated under Article 19(6).
Statute	In Webster's Third New International Dictionary at page 1650, "occupation" is, inter alia , defined as "an activity in which one engages" or "a craft, trade, profession or other means of earning a living".
Precedent	21.
Precedent	In Corpus Juris Secundum, Volume LXVII, the word "occupation" is defined as under:-  "The word "occupation" also is employed as referring to that which occupies time and attention; a calling; or a trade; and it is only as employed in this sense that the word is discussed in the following paragraphs.
Precedent	There is nothing ambiguous about the word "occupation" as it is used in the sense of employing one's time.
Precedent	It is a relative term, in common use with a well-understand meaning, and very broad in its scope and significance.
Precedent	It is described as a generic and very comprehensive term, which includes every species of the genus, and compasses the incidental, as well as the main, requirements of one's vocation., calling, or business.
Precedent	The word "occupation" i s variously defined as meaning the principal business of one's life; the principal or usual business in which a man engages; that which principally takes up one's time, thought, and energies; that which occupies or engages the time and attention; that particular business, profession, trade, or calling which engages the time and efforts of an individual; the employment in which one engages, or the vocation of one's life; the state of being occupied or employed in any way; that activity in which a person, natural or artificial, is engaged with the element of a degree of permanency attached."
Precedent	22.
Precedent	A Five Judge Bench in <CITATION_165273> .
Precedent	at page 174, para 28, observed as follows: ".....The word occupation has a wide meaning such as any regular work, profession, job, principal activity, employment, business or a calling in which an individual is engaged.....The object of using four analogous and overlapping words in Article 19(1)(g) is to make the guaranteed right as comprehensive as possible to include all the  avenues and modes through which a man may earn his livelihood.
Precedent	In a nutshell the guarantee takes into its fold any activity carried on by a citizen of India to earn his living.....".
Precedent	23.
Precedent	In <NAME> case, at page 687, para 63, while referring to education, it was observed as follows:-  ".....It may perhaps fall under the category of occupation provided no recognition is sought from the <ORG> or affiliation from the <ORG> is asked on the basis that its a fundamental right....."  24.
Precedent	While the conclusion that "occupation" comprehends the establishment of educational institutions is correct, the proviso in the aforesaid observation to the effect that this is so provided no recognition is sought from the state or affiliation from the concerned university is, with the utmost respect, erroneous.
Precedent	The fundamental right to establish an educational institution cannot be confused with the right to ask for recognition of affiliation.
Precedent	The exercise of a fundamental right may be controlled in a variety of ways.
Precedent	For example, the right to carry on a business does not entail the right to carry on a business at a particular place.
Precedent	The right to carry on a business may be subject to licensing laws so that a denial of the licence presents a person from carrying on that particular business.
Precedent	The question of whether there is a fundamental right or not cannot be dependent upon whether it can be made the subject matter of controls.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	The establishment and running of an educational institution where a large number of persons are employed as teachers or administrative staff, and an activity is carried on that results in the imparting of knowledge to the students, must necessarily be regarded as an occupation, even if there is no element of profit generation.
Precedent	It is difficult to comprehended that education, per se, will not fall under any of the four expressions in Article 19(1)(g).
Precedent	"Occupation" would be an activity of a person undertaken as a means of livelihood or a mission in life.
Precedent	The above quoted observations in Sodan Sing h's case correctly interpret the expression "occupation" in Article 19(1)(g).
Precedent	26.
Precedent	The right to establish and maintain educational institutions may also be sourced to Article 26(a ), which grants, in positive terms, the right to every religious denomination or any section thereof to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes, subject to public order, morality and health.
Precedent	Education is a recognized head of charity.
Precedent	Therefore, religious denominations or sections thereof, which do not fall within the special categories carved out in Article 29(1) and 30(1 ), have the right to establish and maintain religious and educational institutions.
Precedent	This would allow members belonging to any religious denomination, including the majority religious community, to set up an educational institution.
Precedent	Given this, the phrase "private educational institution" as used in this judgment would include not only those educational institutions set up by the secular persons or bodies, but also educational inst itutions set up by religious denominations; the word "private" is used in contradistinction to government institutions.
Precedent	2.
Precedent	DOES <NAME> CASE REQUIRE RECONSIDERATION?
Precedent	27.
Fact	In the case of <CITATION_40715> ., the challenge was to a notification of June 1989, which provided for a fee structure, whereby for government seats, the tuition fee was Rs.
Fact	2, 000 per annum, and for students from Karnataka, the fee was Rs.
Fact	25,000 per annum, while the fee for Indian students from outside Karnataka, under the payment category, was Rs.
Fact	60,000 per annum.
Fact	It had been contended that charging such a discriminatory and high fee violated constitutional guarantees and rights.
Fact	This attack was sustained, and it was held that there was a fundamental right to education in every citizen, and that the state was duty bound to provide the education, and that the private institutions that discharge the state's duties were equally bound not to charge a higher fee than the government institutions.
Fact	The <ORG> then held that any prescrip tion of fee in excess of what was payable in government colleges was a capitation fee and would, therefore, be illegal.
Fact	The correctness of this decision was challenged in <NAME> case, where it was contended that if <NAME> ratio was applied the educational institutions would have to be closed down, as they would be wholly unviable without appropriate funds, by way of tuition fees, from their students.
Fact	28.
Fact	We will now examine the decision in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this case, this Court considered the conditions and regulations, if any, which the state could impose in the running of private unaided/aided recognized or affiliated educational institutions conducting professional courses such a medicine, engineering, etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	The extent to which the fee could be charged by such an institution, and the manner in which admissions could be granted was also considered.
Precedent	This Court held that private unaided recognized/affiliated educational institutions running professional courses were entitled to charge  a fee higher than that charged by government institutions for similar courses, but that such a fee could not exceed the maximum limit fixed by the state.
Precedent	It held that commercialization of eduction was not permissible, and "was opposed to public policy and Indian tradition and therefore charging capitation fee was illegal."
Precedent	With regard to private aided recognized/affiliated educational institutions, the <ORG> upheld the power of the government to frame rules and regulations in matter of admission and fees, as well as in matters such a recruitment and conditions of service of teachers and staff.
Precedent	Though a question was raised as to whether the setting up of an educational institution could be regarded as a business, profession or vocation under Article 19(1)(g ), this question was not answered.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., however, at page 751, para 197, observed as follows:-  ".....While we do not wish to express any opinion on the question whether the right to establish an educational institution can be said to be carryin g on any "occupation" within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g ), - perhaps, it is -- we are certainly of the opinion that such activity can neither be a trade or business nor can it be a profession within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g).
Precedent	Trade or business normally connotes an activity carried on with a profit motive.
Precedent	Education has never been commerce in this country....."  29.
Precedent	Reliance was placed on a decision of this Court in <CITATION_1149369> ., wherein it had been held that educational institutions would come within the expression "industry" in the Industrial Disputes Act , and that, therefore, education would come under Article 19(1)(g).
Precedent	But the applicability of this decision was distinguished by <NAME>, observing that "we do not think the said observation (that education as industry) in a different context has any application here".
Precedent	While holding, on an interpretation of Articles 21, 41, 45 and 46, that a citizen who had not completed the age of 14 years had a right to free education, it was hel d that such a right was not available to citizens who were beyond the age of 14 years.
Precedent	It was further held that private educational institutions merely supplemented the effort of the state in educating the people.
Precedent	No private educational institution could survive or subsist without recognition and/or affiliation granted by bodies that were the authorities of the state.
Precedent	In such a situation, the <ORG> held that it was obligatory upon the authority granting recognition/affiliation to insist upon such conditions as were appropriate to ensure not only an education of requisite standard, but also fairness and equal treatment in matter of admission of students.
Precedent	The <ORG> then formulated a scheme and directed every authority granting recognition/affiliation to impose that scheme upon institutions seeking recognition/affiliation, even if they were unaided institutions.
Precedent	The scheme that was framed, inter alia, postulated  (a) that a professional college should be established and/or administered only by a <ORG> register ed under the Societies Registration Act , 1860, or the corresponding Act of a State, or by a Public Trust registered under the Trusts Act , or under the Wakfs Act , and that no individual, firm, company or other body of individuals would be permitted to establish and/or administer a professional college (b) that 50% of the seats in every professional college should be filed by the nominees of the <ORG> or <ORG>, selected on the basis of merit determined by a common entrance examination, which will be referred to as "free seats"; the remaining 50% seats ("payment seats") should be filled by those candidates who pay the fee prescribed therefore, and the allotment of students against payment seats should be done on the basis of inter se merit determined on the same basis as in the case of free seats (c) that there should be no quota reserved for the management or for any family, caste or community, which may have established such a college (d) that it should be open to the professional college to provi de for reservation of sets for constitutionally permissible classes with the approval of the affiliating university (e) that the fee chargeable in each professional college should be subject to such a ceiling as may be prescribed by the appropriate authority or by a competent court (f) that every state government should constitute a committee to fix the ceiling on the fees chargeable by a professional college or class of professional colleges, as the case may be.
Precedent	This committee should, after hearing the professional colleges, fix the fee once every three years or at such longer intervals, as it may think appropriate(g) that it would be appropriate for <ORG> to frame regulators under its Act regulating the fees that the affiliated colleges operating on a no grant-in-aid basis were entitled to charge.
Precedent	The <ORG>, <ORG> and <ORG> were also given similar advice.
Precedent	The manner in which the seats to be filled on the basis of the common entrance test was a lso indicated.
Precedent	30.
Argument	The counsel for the minority institutions, as well as the Solicitor General, have contended that the scheme framed by this <ORG> in <NAME> case was not warranted.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was represented to us that the cost incurred on educating a student in an unaided professional college was more than the total fee, which is realized on the basis of the formula fixed in the scheme.
RatioOfTheDecision	This had resulted in revenue shortfalls.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG>, by interim orders subsequent to the decision in <NAME> case, had permitted, within the payment seats, some percentage of seats to be allotted to Non- Resident Indians, against payment of a higher amount as determined by the authorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even thereafter, sufficient funds were not available for the development of those educational institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another infirmity which was pointed out was that experience has shown that most of the "free seats" were generally occupied by students from affluent families, while students from less affluent families were required to pay  much more to secure admission to "payment seats".
RatioOfTheDecision	This was for the reason that students from affluent families had had better school education and the benefit of professional coaching facilities and were, therefore, able to secure higher merit positions in the common entrance test, and thereby secured the free seats.
RatioOfTheDecision	The education of these more affluent students was in a way being cross-subsidized by the financially poorer students who because of their lower position in the merit list, could secure only "payment seats".
Fact	It was also submitted by the counsel for the minority institutions that <NAME> case was not applicable to the minority institutions, but that notwithstanding this, the scheme to evolved had been made applicable to them as well.
Precedent	31.
Precedent	Counsel for the institutions, as well as the Solicitor General, submitted that the decision in <NAME> case, insofar as it had framed the scheme relating to the grant of admission and the fixing of the fee, was unreasonable and invalid.
Precedent	However, i ts conclusion that children below the age of 14 had a fundamental right to free education did not call for any interference.
Precedent	32.
Argument	It has been submitted by the learned counsel for the parties that the implementation of the scheme by the States, which have amended their rules and regulations, has shown a number of anomalies.
RatioOfTheDecision	As already noticed, 50% of the seats are to be given on the basis of merit determined after the conduct of a common entrance test, the rate of fee being minimal.
RatioOfTheDecision	The "payment seats" which represent the balance number, therefore, cross- subsidize the "free seats".
RatioOfTheDecision	The experience of the educational institutions has been that students who come from private schools, and who belong to more affluent families, are able to secure higher positions in the merit list of the common entrance test, and are thus able to seek admission to the "free seats".
RatioOfTheDecision	Paradoxically, it is the students who come from less affluent families, who are normally able to secure, on the basis of the merit list prepared after t he common entrance test, only "payment seats".
Precedent	33.
Argument	It was contended by petitioned counsel that the implementation of the <ORG> scheme has in fact (1) helped the privileged from richer urban families, even after they ceased to be comparatively meritorious, and (2) resulted in economic losses for the educational institutions concerned, and made them financially unviable.
RatioOfTheDecision	Data in support of this contention was placed on record in an effort to persuade this <ORG> to hold that the scheme had failed to achieve its object.
RatioOfTheDecision	34.
RatioOfTheDecision	Material has also been placed on the record in an effort to show that the total fee realized from the fee fixed for "free seats" and the "payment seats" is actually less than the amount of expense that is incurred on each student admitted to the professional college.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is because there was a revenue shortfall that this <ORG> had permitted in NRI quota to be carved out of the 50% payment seats for which charging higher fee was permitted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Directions were given to <ORG>, <ORG>, <ORG> ouncil of India and Central and State governments to regulate or fix a ceiling on fees, and to enforce the same by imposing conditions of affiliation/permission to establish and run the institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	35.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears to us that the scheme framed by this <ORG> and thereafter followed by the governments was one that cannot be called a reasonable restriction under Article 19(6) of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Normally, the reason for establishing an educational institution is to impart education.
RatioOfTheDecision	The institution thus needs qualified and experienced teachers and proper facilities and equipment, all of which require capital investment.
RatioOfTheDecision	The teachers are required to be paid properly.
RatioOfTheDecision	As pointed out above, the restrictions imposed by the scheme, in <NAME> case, made it difficult, if not impossible, for the educational institutions to run efficiently.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, such restrictions cannot be said to be reasonable restrictions.
RatioOfTheDecision	36.
RatioOfTheDecision	The private unaided educational institutions impart education, and that cannot be the reason to t ake away their choice in matters, inter alia, of selection of students and fixation of fees.
RatioOfTheDecision	Affiliation and recognition has to be available to every institution that fulfills the conditions for grant of such affiliation and recognition.
RatioOfTheDecision	The private institutions are right in submitting that it is not open to the <ORG> to insist that statutory authorities should impose the terms of the scheme as a condition for grant of affiliation or recognition; this completely destroys the institutional autonomy and the very objective of establishment of the institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	37.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> judgment has created certain problems, and raised thorny issues.
RatioOfTheDecision	In its anxiety to check the commercialization of education, a scheme of "free" and "payment" seats was evolved on the assumption that the economic capacity of first 50% of admitted students would be greater than the remaining 50%, whereas the converse has proved to be the reality.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this scheme, the "payment seat" student would not only pay for his own seat, but also fi nance the cost of a "free seat" classmate.
RatioOfTheDecision	When one considers <ORG> earlier statement that higher education is not a fundamental right, it seems unreasonable to compel a citizen to pay for the education of another, more so in the unrealistic world of competitive examinations which assess the merit for the purpose of admission solely on the basis of the marks obtained, where the urban students always have an edge over the rural students.
RatioOfTheDecision	In practice, it has been the case of the marginally less merited rural or poor student bearing the burden of a rich and well-exposed urban student.
RatioOfTheDecision	38.
RatioOfTheDecision	The scheme in <NAME> case has the effect of nationalizing education in respect of important features, viz., the right of a private unaided institution to give admission and to fix the fee.
RatioOfTheDecision	By framing this scheme, which has led to <ORG> legislating in conformity with the scheme the private institutions are undistinguishable from the government institutions; curtailing all the essentia l features of the right of administration of a private unaided educational institution can neither be called fair or reasonable.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even in the decision in <NAME> case, it has been observed by <NAME>, at page 749, para 194, as follows:  "The hard reality that emerges is that private educational institutions are a necessity in the present day context.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not possible to do without them because the Governments are in no position to meet the demand - particularly in the sector of medical and technical education which call for substantial outlays.
RatioOfTheDecision	While education is one of the most important functions of the Indian State it has no monopoly therein.
Precedent	Private educational institutions - including minority educational institutions - too have a role to play."
Precedent	39.
RatioOfTheDecision	That private educational instructions are a necessity becomes evident from the fact that the number of government-maintained professional colleges has more or less remained stationary, while more private institutions have been established.
RatioOfTheDecision	For example, in the State of Karnataka there are 19 medical colleges out of which there are only 4 government- maintained medical colleges.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, out of 14 <ORG> in Karnataka, only one has been established by the government, while in the same State, out of 51 <ORG>, only 12 have been established by the government.
RatioOfTheDecision	The aforesaid figures clearly indicate the important role played by private unaided educational institutions, both minority and non-minority, which cater to the needs of students seeking professional education.
Precedent	40.
Precedent	Any system of student selection would be unreasonable if it deprives the private unaided institution of the right of rational selection, which it devised for itself, subject to the minimum qualification that may be prescribed and to some system of computing the equivalence between different kinds of qualifications, like a common entrance test.
Precedent	Such a system of selection can involve both written and oral tests for selection, based on principle of fairness.
Precedent	4 1.
Precedent	Surrendering the total process of selection to the state is unreasonable, as was sought to be done in the <ORG> scheme.
Precedent	Apart from the decision in <ORG> <CITATION_13862901> , which recognized and upheld the right of a minority aided institution to have a rational admission procedure of its own, earlier <ORG> decision of this <ORG> have, in effect, upheld such a right of an institution devising a rational manner of selecting and admitting students.
Precedent	42.
Precedent	<CITATION_203735> ., while considering the validity of a viva-voce test for admission to a government medical college, it was observed at page 380 that colleges run by the government, having regard to financial commitments and other relevant considerations, would only admit a specific number of students.
Precedent	It had devised a method for screening the applicants for admission.
Precedent	While upholding the order so issued, it was observed that "once it is conceded, and it is not disputed before us, that <ORG> can run medical and e ngineering colleges, it cannot be denied the power to admit such qualified students as pass the reasonable tests laid down by it.
Precedent	This is a power which every private owner of a <ORG> will have, and the <ORG> which runs its own <ORG>s cannot be denied that power."
Precedent	(emphasis added).
Precedent	43.
Precedent	Again, in <CITATION_1342109> ., it was observed at page 795 that "so far as admission is concerned, it has to be made by those who are in control of the <ORG>s, and in this case the <ORG>, because the medical colleges are <ORG> colleges affiliated to the <ORG>.
Precedent	In these circumstances, the <ORG> was entitled to frame rules for admission to medical colleges controlled by it subject to the rules of the university as to eligibility and qualifications."
Precedent	The aforesaid observations clearly underscore the right of the colleges to frame rules for admission and to admit students.
Precedent	The only requirement or control is that the rules for admission must be subject to the rules of the university as to eligibility  and qualifications.
Precedent	The Court did not say that the university could provide the manner in which the students were to be selected.
Precedent	44.
Precedent	<CITATION_195765> ., dealing with a government run medical college at pages 232-33, para 9, it was observed as follows:  "It is <ORG> which bears the financial burden of running the medical college.
Precedent	It is for it to lay down the criteria for eligibility....."  45.
Precedent	In view of the discussion hereinabove, we hold that the decision in <NAME> case, insofar as it framed the scheme relating to the grant of admission and the fixing of the fee, was not correct, and to that extent, the said decision and the consequent direction given to <ORG>, <ORG>, <ORG>, <ORG>, etc., are overruled.
Precedent	3.
Precedent	IN CASE OF PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS, CAN THERE BE GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND, IF SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?
Precedent	46.
Precedent	We will now examine the nature and extent of the regulations that can be framed by the <ORG>, <ORG> or any affiliating body, while  granting recognition or affiliation to a private educational institution.
Precedent	47.
Precedent	Private educational institutions, both aided and unaided, are established and administered by religious and linguistic minorities, as well as by non-minorities.
Precedent	Such private educational institutions provide education at three levels, viz., school, college and professional level.
Precedent	It is appropriate to first deal with the case of private unaided institutions and private aided institutions that are not administered by linguistic or religious minorities.
Precedent	Regulations that can be framed relating to minority institutions will be considered while examining the merit and effect of Article 30 of the Constitution.
Precedent	Private Unaided Non-Minority Educational Institutions  48.
Precedent	Private education is one of the most dynamic and fastest growing segments of post-secondary education at the turn of the twenty-first century.
Precedent	A combination of unprecedented demand for access to higher education and the inability or unwillingness of government to provide the  necessary support has brought private higher education to the forefront.
Precedent	Private institutions, with a long history in many countries, are expanding in scope and number, and are becoming increasingly important in parts of the world that relied almost entirely on the public sector.
Precedent	49.
RatioOfTheDecision	Not only has demand overwhelmed the ability of the governments to provide education, there has also been a significant change in the way that higher education is perceived.
RatioOfTheDecision	The idea of an academic degree as a "private good" that benefits the individual rather than a "public good" for society is now widely accepted.
RatioOfTheDecision	The logic of today's economics and an ideology of privatization have contributed to the resurgence of private higher education, and the establishing of private institutions where none or very few existed before.
Precedent	50.
Precedent	The right to establish and administer broadly comprises of the following rights:-  (a) to admit students:  (b) to set up a reasonable fee structure:  (c) to constitute a governing body;  (d) to appoint s taff (teaching and non-teaching); and  (e) to take action if there is dereliction of duty on the part of any employees.
Precedent	51.
Precedent	<ORG> was appointed on 4th November, 1948, having Dr. <NAME> as its Chairman and nine other renowned educationists as its members.
Precedent	The terms of reference, inter alia, included matters relating to means and objects of university education and research in India and maintenance of higher standards of teaching and examining in universities and colleges under their control.
Precedent	In the report submitted by this <ORG>, in paras 29 and 31, it referred to autonomy in education which reads as follows:-  "University Autonomy.
Precedent	-- Freedom of individual development is the basis of democracy.
Precedent	Exclusive control of education by the <ORG> has been an important factor in facilitating the maintenance of totalitarian tyrannies.
Precedent	In such <ORG>s institutions of higher learning controlled and managed by governmental agencies act like mercenaries, promote the political purpo ses of the <ORG>, make them acceptable to an increasing number of their populations and supply then with the weapons they need.
Precedent	We must resist, in the interests of our own democracy, the trend towards the governmental domination of the educational process.
Precedent	Higher educational is, undoubtedly, an obligation of the <ORG> but <ORG> aid is not to be confused with <ORG> control over academic policies and practices.
Precedent	Intellectual progress demands the maintenance of the spirit of free inquiry.
Precedent	The pursuit and practice of truth regardless of consequences has been the ambition of universities.
Precedent	Their prayer is that of the dying <NAME>: "More light," or that <NAME> in the mist "Light, though I perish in the light.
Precedent	xxxxx xxx xxx The respect in which the universities of Great Britain are held is due to the freedom from governmental interference which they enjoy constitutionally and actually.
Precedent	Our universities should be released from the control of politics.
Precedent	Liberal Education.
Precedent	-- All education is expected to be liberal.
Precedent	It s hould free us from the shackles of ignorance, prejudice and unfounded belief.
Precedent	If we are incapable of achieving the good life, it is due to faults in our inward being, to the darkness in us.
Precedent	The process of education is the slow conquering of this darkness.
Precedent	To lead us from darkness to light, to free us from every kind of domination except that of reason, is the aim of education."
Precedent	52.
Precedent	There cannot be a better exposition than what has been observed by these renowned educationists with regard to autonomy in education.
Precedent	The aforesaid passage clearly shows that the governmental domination of the educational process must be resisted.
Precedent	Another pithy observation of the <ORG> was that state aid was not to be confused with state control over academic policies and practices.
Precedent	The observations referred to hereinabove clearly contemplate educational institutions soaring to great heights in pursuit of intellectual excellence and being free from unnecessary governmental controls.
Precedent	53.
Precedent	With regard to the core components of  the rights under Article 19 and 26(a ), it must be held that while the state has the right to prescribe qualifications necessary for admission, private unaided colleges have the right to admit students of their choice, subject to an objective and rational procedure of selection and the compliance of conditions, if any, requiring admission of a small percentage of students belonging to weaker sections of the society by granting them freeships or scholarships, if not granted by the <ORG>.
Precedent	Furthermore, in setting up a reasonable fee structure, the element of profiteering is not as yet accepted in Indian conditions.
Precedent	The fee structure must take into consideration the need to generate funds to be utilized for the betterment and growth of the educational institution, the betterment of education in that institution and to provide facilities necessary for the benefit of the students.
Precedent	In any event, a private institution will have the right to constitute its own governing body, for which qualifications may be presc ribed by the state or the concerned university.
Precedent	It will, however, be objectionable if the state retains the power to nominate specific individuals on governing bodies.
Precedent	Nomination by the state, which could be on a political basis, will be an inhibiting factor for private enterprise to embark upon the occupation of establishing and administering educational institutions.
Precedent	For the same reasons, nomination of teachers either directly by the department or through a service commission will be an unreasonable inroad and an unreasonable restrictions on the attorney of the private unaided educational institution.
Precedent	54.
Precedent	The right to establish an educational institution can be regulated; but such regulatory measures must, in general, be to ensure the maintenance of proper academic standards, atmosphere and infrastructure (including qualified staff) and the prevention of mal-administration by those in charge of management.
Precedent	The fixing of a rigid fee structure, dictating the formation and composition of a government body, co mpulsory nomination of teachers and staff for appointment or nominating students for admissions would be unacceptable restrictions.
Precedent	55.
Precedent	The Constitution recognizes the right of the individual or religious denomination, or a religious or linguistic minority to establish an educational institution.
Precedent	If aid or financial assistance is not sought, then such institution will be a private unaided institution.
Precedent	Although, in <NAME> case, the <ORG> emphasized the important role played by private unaided institutions and the need for private funding, in the scheme that was framed, restrictions were placed on some of the important ingredients relating to the functioning of an educational institution.
Precedent	There can be no doubt that in seeking affiliation or recognition, the <ORG> or the university or the affiliating or recognizing authority can lay down conditions consistent with the requirement to ensure the excellence of education.
Precedent	It can, for instance, indicate the quality of the teachers by prescribing the minimum  qualifications that they must possess, and the courses of study and curricula.
Precedent	It can, for the same reasons, also stipulate the existence of infrastructure sufficient for its growth, as a pre-requisite.
Precedent	But the essence of a private educational institution is the autonomy that the institution must have in its management and administration.
Precedent	There, necessarily, has to be a difference in the administration of private unaided institutions and the government-aided institutions.
Precedent	Whereas in the latter case, the <ORG> will have greater say in the administration, including admissions and fixing of fees, in the case of private unaided institutions, maximum autonomy in the day-to-day administration has to be with the private unaided institutions.
Precedent	Bureaucratic or governmental interference in the administration of such an institution will undermine its independence.
Precedent	While an educational institution is not a business, in order to examine the degree of independence that can be given to a recognized educational institut ion, like any private entity that does not seek aid or assistance from the <ORG>, and that exists by virtue of the funds generated by it, including its loans or borrowings, it is important to note that the essential ingredients of the management of the private institution include the recruiting students and staff, and the quantum of fee that is to be charged.
Precedent	56.
Precedent	An educational institution is established for the purpose of imparting education of the type made available by the institution.
Precedent	Different courses of study are usually taught by teachers who have to be recruited as per qualifications that may be prescribed.
Precedent	It is no secret that better working conditions will attract better teachers.
Precedent	More amenities will ensure that better students seek admission to that institution.
Precedent	One cannot lose sight of the fact that providing good amenities to the students in the form of competent teaching faculty and other infrastructure costs money.
Precedent	It has, therefore, to be left to the institution, if it chooses not to see k any aid from the government, to determine the scale of fee that it can charge from the students.
Precedent	One also cannot lose sight of the fact that we live in a competitive world today, where professional education is in demand.
Precedent	We have been given to understand that a large number of professional and other institutions have been started by private parties who do not seek any governmental aid.
Precedent	In a sense a prospective students has various options open to him/her where, therefore, normally economic forces have a role to play.
Precedent	The decision on the fee to be charged must necessarily be left to the private educational institution that does not seek or is not dependent upon any funds from the government.
Precedent	57.
Precedent	We, however, wish to emphasize one point, and that is that inasmuch as the occupation of education is, in a sense, regarded as charitable, the government can provide regulations that will ensure excellence in education, while forbidding the charging of capitation fee and profiteering by the institution.
Precedent	Since the ob ject of setting up an educational institution is by definition "charitable", it is clear that an educational institution cannot charge such a fee as is not required for the purpose of fulfilling that object.
Precedent	To put it differently, in the establishment of an educational institution, the object should not be to make a profit, inasmuch as education is essentially charitable in nature.
Precedent	There can, however, be a reasonable revenue surplus, which may be generated by the educational institution for the purpose of development of education and expansion of the institution.
Precedent	58.
Precedent	For admission into any professional institution, merit must play an important role.
Precedent	While it may not be normally possible to judge the merit of the applicant who seeks admission into a school, while seeking admission to a professional institution and to become a competent professional, it is necessary that meritorious candidates are not unfairly treated or put at a disadvantage by preferences shown to less meritorious but more influential applic ants.
Precedent	Excellence in professional education would require that greater emphasis be laid on the merit of a student seeking admission.
Precedent	Appropriate regulations for this purpose may be made keeping in view the other observations made in this judgment in the context of admissions to unaided institutions.
Precedent	59.
Precedent	Merit is usually determined, for admission to professional and higher education colleges, by either the marks that the student obtains at the qualifying examination or school leaving certificate stage followed by the interview, or by a common entrance test conducted by the institution, or in the case of professional colleges, by government agencies.
Precedent	60.
Precedent	Education is taught at different levels from primary to professional.
Precedent	It is, therefore, obvious that government regulations for all levels or types of educational institutions cannot be identical; so also, the extent of control or regulation could be greater vis-a-vis aided institutions.
Precedent	61.
Precedent	In the case of unaided private schools, maximum autonomy has to be w ith the management with regard to administration, including the right of appointment, disciplinary powers, admission of students and the fees to be charged.
Precedent	At the school level, it is not possible to grant admission on the basis of merit.
Precedent	It is no secret that the examination results at all levels of unaided private schools, notwithstanding the stringent regulations of the governmental authorities, are far superior to the results of the government-maintained schools.
Precedent	There is no compulsion on students to attend private schools.
Precedent	The rush for admission is occasioned by the standards maintained in such schools, and recognition of the fact that state-run schools do not provide the same standards of education.
Precedent	The <ORG> says that it has no funds to establish institutions at the same level of excellence as private schools.
Precedent	But by curtaining the income of such private schools, it disables those schools from affording the best facilities because of a lack of funds.
Precedent	If this lowering of standards from excellence to a le vel of mediocrity is to be avoided, the state has to provide the difference which, therefore, brings us back in a vicious circle to the original problem, viz., the lack of state funds.
Precedent	The solution would appear to lie in the States not using their scanty resources to prop up institutions that are able to otherwise maintain themselves out of the fees charged, but in improving the facilities and infrastructure of state-run schools and in subsidizing the fees payable by the students there.
Precedent	It is in the interest of the general public that more good quality schools are established; autonomy and non-regulation of the school administration in the right of appointment, admission of the students and the fee to be charged will ensure that more such institutions are established.
Precedent	The fear that if a private school is allowed to charge fees commensurate with the fees affordable, the degrees would be "purchasable" is an unfounded one since the standards of education can be and are controllable through the regulations relati ng to recognition, affiliation and common final examinations.
Precedent	62.
Precedent	There is a need for private enterprise in non-professional college education as well.
Precedent	At present, insufficient number of undergraduate colleges are being and have been established, one of the inhibiting factors being that there is a lack of autonomy due to government regulations.
Precedent	It will not be wrong to presume that the numbers of professional colleges are growing at a faster rate than the number of undergraduate and non- professional colleges.
Precedent	While it is desirable that there should be a sufficient number of professional colleges, it should also be possible for private unaided undergraduate colleges that are non-technical in nature to have maximum autonomy similar to a school.
Precedent	63.
Precedent	It was submitted that for maintaining the excellence of education, it was important that the teaching faculty and the members of the staff of any educational institution performed their duties in the manner in which it is required to be done, according to the rules  or instructions.
Precedent	There have been cases of misconduct having been committed by the teachers and other members of the staff.
Precedent	The grievance of the institution is that whenever disciplinary action is sought to be taken in relation to such misconduct, the rules that are normally framed by the government or the university are clearly loaded against the Management.
Precedent	It was submitted that in some cases, the rules require the prior permission of the governmental authorities before the intimation of the disciplinary proceeding, while in other cases, subsequent permission is required before the imposition of penalties in the case of proven misconduct.
Precedent	While emphasizing the need for an independent authority to adjudicate upon the grievance of the employee or the Management in the event of some punishment being imposed, it was submitted that there should be no role for the government or the university to play in relation to the imposition of any penalty on the employee.
Precedent	64.
Precedent	An educational institution is established only  for the purpose of imparting education to the students.
Precedent	In such an institution, it is necessary for all to maintain discipline and abide by the rules and regulations that have been lawfully framed.
Precedent	The teachers are like foster- parents who are required to look after, cultivate and guide the students in their pursuit of education.
Precedent	The teachers and the institution exist for the students and not vice versa.
Precedent	Once this principle is kept in mind, it must follow that it becomes imperative for the teaching and other staff of an educational institution to perform their duties properly, and for the benefit of the students.
Precedent	Where allegations of misconduct are made, it is imperative that a disciplinary enquiry is conducted, and that a decision is taken.
Precedent	In the case of a private institution, the relationship between the Management and the employees is contractual in nature.
Precedent	A teacher, if the contract so provides, can be proceeded against, and appropriate disciplinary action can be taken if the misconduct of the teacher is  proved.
Precedent	Considering the nature of the duties and keeping the principle of natural justice in mind for the purposes of establishing misconduct and taking action thereon, it is imperative that a fair domestic enquiry is conducted.
Precedent	It is only on the basis of the result of the disciplinary enquiry that the management will be entitled to take appropriate action.
Precedent	We see no reason why the Management of a private unaided educational should seek the consent or approval of any governmental authority before taking any such action.
Precedent	In the ordinary relationship of master and servant, governed by the terms of a contract of employment, anyone who is guilty of breach of the terms can be proceeded against and appropriately relief can be sought.
Precedent	Normally, the aggrieved party would approach a court of law and seek redress.
Precedent	In the case of educational institutions, however, we are of the opinion that requiring a teacher or a member of the staff to go to a civil court for the purpose of seeking redress is not in the interest of g eneral education.
Precedent	Disputes between the management and the staff of educational institutions must be decided speedily, and without the excessive incurring of costs.
Precedent	It would, therefore, be appropriate that an educational Tribunal be set up in each district in a State, to enable the aggrieved teacher to file an appeal, unless there already exists such an educational tribunal in a State -- the object being that the teacher should not suffer through the substantial costs that arise because of the location of the tribunal; if the tribunals are limited in number, they can hold circuit/camp sittings in different districts to achieve this objective.
Precedent	Till a specialized tribunal is set up, the right of filing the appeal would lie before the District Judge or Additional District Judge as notified by the government.
Precedent	It will not be necessary for the institution to get prior permission or ex post facto approval of a governmental authority while taking disciplinary action against a teacher or any other employee.
Precedent	The State G overnment shall determine, in consultation with <ORG>, the judicial forum in which an aggrieved teacher can file an appeal against the decision of the management concerning disciplinary action or termination of service.
Precedent	65.
Precedent	The reputation of an educational institution is established by the qualify of its faculty and students, and the educational and other facilities that the colleges has to offer.
Precedent	The private educational institutions have a personality of their own, and in order to maintain their atmosphere and traditions, it is but necessary that they must have the right to choose and select the students who can be admitted to their courses of studies.
Precedent	If is for this reason that in the <ORG> case, this <ORG> upheld the scheme whereby a cut-off percentage was fixed for admission, after which the students were interviewed and thereafter selected.
Precedent	While an educational institution cannot grant admission on its whims and fancies, and must follow some identifiable or reasonable methodolog y of admitting the students, any scheme, rule or regulation that does not give the institution the right to reject candidates who might otherwise be qualified according to say their performance in an entrance test, would be an unreasonable restriction under Article 19(6 ), though appropriate guidelines/modalities can be prescribed for holding the entrance test a fair manner.
Precedent	Even when students are required to be selected on the basis of merit, the ultimate decision to grant admission to the students who have otherwise qualified for the grant of admission must be left with the educational institution concerned.
Precedent	However, when the institution rejects such students, such rejection must not be whimsical or for extraneous reasons.
Precedent	66.
Precedent	In the case of private unaided educational institution, the authority granting recognition or affiliation can certainly lay down conditions for the grant of recognition or affiliation; these conditions must pertain broadly to academic and educational matters and welfare of students a nd teachers - but how the private unaided institutions are to run is a matter of administration to be taken care of by the <ORG> of those institutions.
Precedent	Private Unaided Professional Colleges  67.
Precedent	We now come to the regulations that can be framed relating to private unaided professional institutions.
Precedent	68.
Precedent	It would be unfair to apply the same rules and regulations regulating admission to both aided and unaided professional institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must be borne in mind that unaided professional institutions are entitled to autonomy in their administration while, at the same time, they do not forgo or discard the principle of merit.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would, therefore, be permissible for the university or the government, at the time of granting recognition, to require a private unaided institution to provide for merit-based selection while, at the same time, giving the <ORG> sufficient discretion in admitting students.
RatioOfTheDecision	This can be done through various methods.
RatioOfTheDecision	For instance, a certain percentage of the seats can be reserved fo r admission by the <ORG> out of those students who have passed the common entrance test held by itself or by <ORG> and have applied to the college concerned for admission, while the rest of the seats may be filled up on the basis of counselling by the state agency.
RatioOfTheDecision	This will incidentally take care of poorer and backward sections of the society.
RatioOfTheDecision	The prescription of percentage for this purpose has to be done by the government according to the local needs and different percentage can be fixed for minority unaided and non-minority unaided and professional colleges.
RatioOfTheDecision	The same principles may be applied to other non-professional but unaided educational institutions viz., graduation and post- graduation non-professional colleges or institutes.
Precedent	69.
Precedent	In such professional unaided institutions, the <ORG> will have the right to select teachers as per the qualifications and eligibility conditions laid down by <ORG> subject to adoption of a rational procedure of selection.
Precedent	A rational f ee structure should be adopted by the Management, which would not be entitled to charge a capitation fee.
Precedent	Appropriate machinery can be devised by the state or university to ensure that no capitation fee is charged and that there is no profiteering, though a reasonable surplus for the furtherance of education is permissible.
Precedent	Conditions granting recognition or affiliation can broadly cover academic and educational matters including the welfare of students and teachers.
Precedent	70.
Precedent	It is well established all over the world that those who seek professional education must pay for it.
Precedent	The number of seats available in government and government-aided colleges is very small, compared to the number of persons seeking admission to the medical and engineering colleges.
Precedent	All those eligible and deserving candidates who could not be accommodated in government colleges would stand deprived of professional education.
Precedent	This void in the field of medical and technical education has been filled by institutions that are established in diff erent places with the aid of donations and the active part taken by public-minded individuals.
Precedent	The object of establishing an institution has thus been to provide technical or professional education to the deserving candidates, and is not necessarily a commercial venture.
Precedent	In order that this intention is meaningful, the institution must be recognized.
Precedent	At the school level, the recognition or affiliation has to be sought from the educational authority or the body that conducts the school-leaving examination.
Precedent	It is only on the basis of that examination that a school-leaving certificate is granted, which enables a student to seek admission in further courses of study after school.
Precedent	A college or a professional educational institution has to get recognition from the concerned university, which normally requires certain conditions to be fulfilled before recognition.
Precedent	It has been held that conditions of affiliation or recognition, which pertain to the academic and educational character of the institution and ensure unifo rmity, efficiency and excellence in educational courses are valid, and that they do not violate even the provisions of Article 30 of the Constitution; but conditions that are laid down for granting recognition should not be such as may lead to governmental control of the administration of the private educational institutions.
Precedent	Private Aided Professional Institutions (non-minority)  71.
Precedent	While giving aid to professional institutions, it would be permissible for the authority giving aid to prescribe by rules or regulations, the conditions on the basis of which admission will be granted to different aided colleges by virtue of merit, coupled with the reservation policy of the state.
Precedent	The merit may be determined either through a common entrance test conducted by the <ORG> or the <ORG> followed by counseling, or on the basis of an entrance test conducted by individual institutions - the method to be followed is for the university or the government to decide.
Precedent	The authority may also device other means to ens ure that admission is granted to an aided professional institution on the basis of merit.
Precedent	In the case of such institutions, it will be permissible for the government or the university to provide that consideration should be shown to the weaker sections of the society.
Precedent	72.
Precedent	Once aid is granted to a private professional educational institution, the government or the state agency, as a condition of the grant of aid, can put fetters on the freedom in the matter of administration and management of the institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The state, which gives aid to an educational institution, can impose such conditions as are necessary for the proper maintenance of the high standards of education as the financial burden is shared by the state.
RatioOfTheDecision	The state would also be under an obligation to protect the interest of the teaching and non-teaching staff.
RatioOfTheDecision	In many states, there are various statutory provisions to regulate the functioning of such educational institutions where the <ORG> give, as a grant or aid, a substantial proportion of the  revenue expenditure including salary, pay and allowances of teaching and non-teaching staff.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be its responsibility to ensure that the teachers working in those institutions are governed by proper service conditions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The state, in the case of such aided institutions, has ample power to regulate the method of selection and appointment of teachers after prescribing requisite qualifications for the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	Ever since In Re The Kerala Education Bill, 1957 [(1959) SCR 995], this Court has upheld, in the case of aided institutions, those regulations that served the interests of students and teachers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Checks on the administration may be necessary in order to ensure that the administration is efficient and sound and will serve the academic needs of the institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, rules and regulations that promote good administration and prevent mal-administration can be formulated so as to promote the efficiency of teachers, discipline and fairness in administration and to preserve harmony among affiliated  institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	At the same time it has to be ensured that even an aided institution does not become a government-owned and controlled institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Normally, the aid that is granted is relatable to the pay and allowances of the teaching staff.
RatioOfTheDecision	In addition, the Management of the private aided institutions has to incur revenue and capital expenses.
Precedent	Such aided institutions cannot obtain that extent of autonomy in relation to management and administration as would be available to a private unaided institution, but at the same time, it cannot also be treated as an educational institution departmentally run by government or as a wholly owned and controlled government institution and interfere with Constitution of the governing bodies or thrusting the staff without reference to Management.
Precedent	Other Aided Institutions  73.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are a large number of educational institutions, like schools and non-professional colleges, which cannot operate without the support of aid from the state.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although these institutions may have be en established by philanthropists or other public-spirited persons, it becomes necessary, in order to provide inexpensive education to the students, to seek aid from the state.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such cases, as those of the professional aided institutions referred to hereinabove, the Government would be entitled to make regulations relating to the terms and conditions of employment of the teaching and non-teaching staff whenever the aid for the posts is given by the <ORG> as well as admission procedures.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such rules and regulations can also provide for the reasons and the manner in which a teacher or any other member of the staff can be removed.
Precedent	in other words, the autonomy of a private aided institution would be less than that of an unaided institution.
Precedent	4.
Precedent	IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE OF A RELIGIOUS OR LINGUISTIC MINORITY IN RELATION TO ARTICLE 30 , WHAT IS TO BE THE UNIT - THE STATE OR THE COUNTRY AS A WHOLE?
Precedent	74.
Precedent	We now consider the question of the unit for the purpose of determining the definition of "minority" wi thin the meaning of Article 30(1).
Precedent	75.
Precedent	Article 30(1) deals with religious minorities and linguistic minorities.
Precedent	The opening words of Article 30(1) make it clear that religious and linguistic minorities have been put at par, insofar as that Article is concerned.
Precedent	Therefore, whatever the unit - whether a state or the whole of India - for determining a linguistic minority, it would be the same in relation to a religious minority.
Precedent	India is divided into different linguistic states.
Precedent	The states have been carved out on the basis of the language of the majority of persons of that region.
Precedent	For example, Andhra Pradesh was established on the basis of the language of that region.
Precedent	viz., Telugu.
Precedent	"Linguistic minority" can, therefore, logically only be in relation to a particular State.
Precedent	If the determination of "linguistic minority" for the purpose of Article 30 is to be in relation to the whole of India, then within the State of Andhra Pradesh, Telugu speakers will have to be regarded as a "linguistic minority".
Precedent	This will cle arly be contrary to the concept of linguistic states.
Precedent	76.
Precedent	If, therefore, the state has to be regarded as the unit for determining "linguistic minority" vis-a-vis Article 30 , then with "religious minority" being on the same footing, it is the state in relation to which the majority or minority status will have to be determined.
Precedent	77.
Precedent	In the <ORG> case, the question as to whether the minority community was to be determined on the basis of the entire population of India, or on the basis of the population of the State forming a part of the <ORG> was posed at page 1047.
Precedent	It had been contended by the State of Kerala that for claiming the status of minority, the persons must numerically be a minority in the particular region in which the education institution was situated, and that the locality or ward or town where the institution was to be situated had to be taken as the unit to determine the minority community.
Precedent	No final opinion on this question was expressed, but it was observed at page 1050 that  as the <ORG> "extends to the whole of the State of Kerala and consequently the minority must be determined by reference to the entire population of that State."
Precedent	78.
Precedent	In two cases pertaining to <ORG>, this <ORG> had to consider whether the Hindus were a religious minority in the State of Punjab.
Precedent	<CITATION_1596466> .
Precedent	[1971 (Supp.)
Precedent	SCR 688], the question posed was as to what constituted a religious or linguistic minority, and how it was to be determined.
Precedent	After examining the opinion of this <ORG> in the <ORG> case, the <ORG> held that the Arya Samajis, who were Hindus, were a religious minority in the State of Punjab, even though they may not have been so in relation to the entire country.
Precedent	In another case, <ORG> v. State of Punjab and <ORG>.
Precedent	[1971 (Supp.)
Precedent	SCR 677], the observations in the first <ORG> case were explained, and at page 681, it was stated that "what constitutes a linguistic or religious minority must be judged in relation to the State  inasmuch as the impugned Act was a State Act and not in relation to the whole of India."
Precedent	<ORG> rejected the contention that since Hindus were a majority in India, they could not be a religious minority in the state of Punjab, as it took the state as the unit to determine whether the Hindus were a minority community.
Precedent	79.
Precedent	There can, therefore, be little doubt that this <ORG> has consistently held that, with regard to a state law, the unit to determine a religious or linguistic minority can only be the state.
Precedent	80.
Precedent	The Forty-Second Amendment to the Constitution included education in the Concurrent List under Entry 25.
Precedent	Would this in any way change the position with regard to the determination of a "religious" or "linguistic minority" for the purposes of Article 30?
Precedent	81.
Precedent	As a result of the insertion of Entry 25 into List III, <ORG> can now legislate in relation to education, which was only a state subject previously.
Precedent	The jurisdiction of the <ORG> is to make laws for the whole or a part of I ndia.
Precedent	It is well recognized that geographical classification is not violative of Article 14.
Precedent	It would, therefore, be possible that, with respect to a particular State or group of States, <ORG> may legislate in relation to education.
Precedent	However, Article 30 gives the right to a linguistic or religious minority of a State to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The minority for the purpose of Article 30 cannot have different meanings depending upon who is legislating.
Precedent	Language being the basis for the establishment of different states for the purposes of Article 30 a "linguistic minority" will have to be determined in relation to the state in which the educational institution is sought to be established.
Precedent	The position with regard to the religious minority is similar, since both religious and linguistic minorities have been put at par in Article 30.
Precedent	5.
Precedent	TO WHAT EXTENT CAN THE RIGHTS OF AIDED PRIVATE MINORITY INSTITUTIONS TO ADMINISTER BE REGULATED?
Precedent	82.
Precedent	Article 25 give to all person s the freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practice and propagate religion.
Precedent	This right, however, is not absolute.
Precedent	The opening words of Article 25(1) make this right subject to public order, morality and health, and also to the other provisions of Part III of the Constitution.
Precedent	This would mean that the right given to a person under 25(1) can be curtailed or regulated if the exercise of that right would violate other provisions of Part III of the Constitution, or if the exercise thereof is to in consonance with public order, morality and health.
Precedent	The general law made by the government contains provisions relating to public order, morality and health; these would have to be complied with, and cannot be violated by any person in exercise of his freedom of conscience or his freedom to profess, practice and propagate religion.
Precedent	For example, a person cannot propagate his religion in such a manner as to denigrate another religion or bring about dissatisfaction amongst people.
Precedent	83.
Precedent	Article 25(2) gives s pecific power to the state to make any law regulating or restricting any economic, financial, political or other secular activity, which may be associated with religious practice as provided by Sub-clause (a) of Article 25(2).
Precedent	This is a further curtailment of the right to profess, practice and propagate religion conferred on the persons under Article 25(1).
Precedent	Article 25(2)(a) covers only a limited area associated with religious practice, in respect of which a law can be made.
Precedent	A careful reading of Article 25(2)(a) indicates that it does not prevent the <ORG> from making any law in relation to the religious practice as such.
Precedent	The limited jurisdiction granted by Article 25(2) relates to the making of a law in relation to economic, financial, political or other secular activities associated with the religious practice.
Precedent	84.
Precedent	The freedom to manage religious affairs is provided by Article 26.
Precedent	This Article gives the right to every religious denomination, or any section thereof, to exercise the rights that it stipulates .
Precedent	However, this right has to be exercised in a manner that is in conformity with public order, morality and health.
Precedent	Clause (a) of Article 26 gives a religious denomination the right to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes.
Precedent	There is no dispute that the establishment of an educational institution comes within the meaning of the expression "charitable purpose".
Precedent	Therefore, while Article 25(1) grants the freedom of conscience and the right to profess, practice and propagate religion, Article 26 can be said to be complementary to it, and provides for every religious denomination, or any section thereof, to exercise the rights mentioned therein.
Precedent	This is because Article 26 does not deal with the right of an individual, but is confined to a religious denomination.
Precedent	Article 26 refers to a denomination of any religion, whether it is a majority or a minority religion, just as Article 25 refers to all persons, whether they belong to the majority or a minority religion.
Precedent	Article 26 gives  the right to majority religious denominations, as well as to minority religious denominations, to exercise the rights contained therein.
Precedent	85.
Precedent	Secularism being one of the important basic features of our Constitution, Article 27 provides that no person shall be compelled to pay any taxes, the proceeds of which are specifically appropriated for the payment of expenses for the promotion and maintenance of any particular religion or religions denomination.
Precedent	The manner in which the Article has been framed does not prohibit the state from enacting a law to incur expenses for the promotion or maintenance of any particular religion or religious denomination, but specifies that by that law, no person can be compelled to pay any tax, the proceeds of which are to be so utilized.
Precedent	In other words, if there is a tax for the promotion or maintenance of any particular religion or religious denomination, no person an be compelled to pay any such tax.
Precedent	86.
Precedent	Article 28(1) prohibits any educational institution, which is wholly maint ained out of state funds, to provide for religious instruction.
Precedent	Moral education dissociation from any demoninational doctrine is not prohibited; but, as the state is intended to be secular, an educational institution wholly maintained out of state funds cannot impart or provide for any religious instruction.
Precedent	87.
Precedent	The exception to Article 28(1) is contained in Article 28(2).
Precedent	Article 28(2) deals with cases where, by an endowment or trust, an institution is established, and the terms of the endowment or the trust require the imparting of religious instruction, and where that institution is administered by the state.
Precedent	In such a case, the prohibition contained in Article 28(1) does not apply.
Precedent	If the administration of such an institution is voluntarily given to the government, or the government, for a good reason and in accordance with law, assumes or takes over the management of that institution, say on account of mal-administration, then the government, on assuming the administration of the institution, would be  obliged to continue with the imparting of religious instruction as provided by the endowment or the trust.
Precedent	88.
Precedent	While Article 28(1) and Article 28(2) relate to institutions that are wholly maintained out of state funds, Article 28(3) deals with an educational institution that is recognized by the state or receives aid out of state funds.
Precedent	Article 28(3) gives the person attending any educational institution the right not to take part in any religious instruction, which may be imparted by an institution recognized by the state, or receiving aid from the state.
Precedent	Such a person also has the right not to attend any religious worship that may be conducted in such an institution, or in any premises attached thereto, unless such a person, or if he/she is a minor, his/her guardian, has given his/her consent.
Precedent	The reading of Article 28(3) clearly shows that no person attending an educational institution can be required to take part in any religious instruction or any religious worship, unless the person or his/her guardian  has given his/her consent thereto, in a case where the educational institution has been recognized by the state or receives aid out of its funds.
Precedent	We have seen that Article 26(a) gives the religious denomination the right to establish an educational institution, the religious denomination being either of the majority community or minority community.
Precedent	In any institution, whether established by the majority or a minority religion, if religious instruction in imparted, no student can be compelled to take part in the said religious instruction or in any religious worship.
Precedent	An individual has the absolute right not to be compelled to take part in any religious instruction or worship.
Precedent	Article 28(3) thereby recognizes the right of an individual to practice or profess his own religion.
Precedent	In other words, in matters relating to religious instruction or worship, there can be no compulsion where the educational institution is either recognized by the state or receives aid from the state.
Precedent	89.
Precedent	Articles 29 and 30 are a group of  articles relating to cultural and educational rights.
Precedent	Article 29(1) gives the right to any section of the citizens residing in India or any part thereof, and having a distinct language, script or culture of its own, to conserve the same.
Precedent	Article 29(1) does not refer to any religion, even though the marginal note of the Article mentions the interests of minorities.
Precedent	Article 29(1) essentially refers to sections of citizens who have a distinct language script or culture, even though their religion may not be the same.
Precedent	The common thread that runs through Article 29(1) in language, script or culture, and not religion.
Precedent	For example, if in any part of the country, there is a section of society that has a distinct language, they are entitled to conserve the same, even though the persons having that language may profess different religions.
Precedent	Article 29(1) gives the right to all sections of citizens, whether they are in a minority or the majority religions, to conserve their language, script or culture.
Precedent	90.
Precedent	In the exerc ise of this right to converse the language, script or culture, that section of the society can set up educational institutions.
Precedent	The right to establish and maintain institutions of its choice is a necessary concomitant to the right conferred by Article 30.
Precedent	The right under Article 30 is not absolute.
Precedent	Article 29(2) provides that, where any educational institution is maintained by the state or receives aid out of state funds no citizen shall be denied admission on the grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	The use of the expression "any educational institution" in Article 29(2) would refer to any educational institution established by anyone, but which is maintained by the state or receives aid out of state funds.
Precedent	In other words, on a plain reading, state-maintained or aided educational institutions, whether established by the <ORG> or the majority or a minority community cannot deny admission to a citizen on the grounds only of religion, race, caste or language.
Precedent	91.
Precedent	The right of th e minorities to establish and administer educational institutions is provided for by Article 30(1).
Precedent	To some extent, Article 26(1)(a) and Article 30(1) overlap, insofar as they relate to the establishment of educational institutions but whereas Article 26 gives the right both to the majority as well as minority communities to establish and maintain institutions for charitable purposes, which would inter alia, include educational institutions, Article 30(1) refers to the right of minorities to establish and maintain educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	Another difference between Article 26 and Article 30 is that whereas Article 26 refers only to religious denominations, Article 30 contains the right of religious as well as linguistic minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	92.
Precedent	Article 30(1) bestows on the minorities, whether based on religion or language, the right to establish and administer educational institution of their choice.
Precedent	Unlike Article 25 and 26 , Artic le 30(1) does not specifically state that the right under Article 30(1) is subject to public order, morality and health or to other provisions of Part III.
Precedent	This Sub-Article also does not specifically mention that the right to establish and administer a minority educational institution would be subject to any rules or regulations.
Precedent	93.
Precedent	Can Article 30(1) be so read as to mean that it contains an absolute right of the minorities, whether based on religion or language, to establish and administer educational institutions in any manner they desire, and without being obliged to comply with the provisions of any law?
Precedent	Des Article 30(1) give the religious or linguistic minorities a right to establish an educational institution that propagates religious or racial bigotry or ill will amongst the people?
Precedent	Can the right under Article 30(1) be so exercised that it is opposed to public morality or health?
Precedent	In the exercise of its right, would the minority while establishing educational institutions not be bound by town plannin g rules and regulations?
Precedent	Can they construct and maintain buildings in any manner they desire without complying with the provisions of the building by-laws or health regulations?
Precedent	94.
Precedent	In order to interpret Article 30 and its interplay, it any, with Article 29 , our attention was drawn to <ORG>.
Precedent	While referring to them, the learned Solicitor General submitted that the provisions of Article 29(2) were intended to be applicable to minority institutions seeking protection of Article 30.
Precedent	He argued that if any educational institution sought aid, it could not deny admission only on the ground of religion, race, caste or language and, consequently giving a preference to the minority over more meritorious non- minority students was impermissible.
Precedent	It is now necessary to refer to some of the decisions of this <ORG> insofar as they interpret Articles 29 and 30, and to examine whether any creases therein need ironing out.
Precedent	95.
Precedent	<CITATION_149321> [(1951) SCR 525] the <ORG> had issued an order, whic h provided that admission to students to engineering and medical colleges in the State should be decided by <ORG> strictly on the basis of the number of seats fixed for different communities.
Precedent	While considering the validity of this order this Court interpreted Article 29(2) and held that if admission was refused only on the grounds of religion, race, caste, language or any of them, then there was a clear breach of the fundamental right under Article 29(2).
Precedent	The said order was construed as being violative of Article 29(2 ), because students who did not fall in the particular categories were to be denied admission.
Precedent	In this connection it was observed as follows:- ".....So far as those seats are concerned, the petitioners are denied admission into any of them, not on any ground other than the sole ground of their being Brahmins and not being members of the community for whom those reservations were made....."  96.
Precedent	This government order was held to be violative of the Constitution and constitutive  of a clear breach of Article 29(2).
Precedent	Article 30 did not come up for consideration in that case.
Precedent	97.
Precedent	<CITATION_1964375> had issued a circular, the operative portion of which directed that no primary or secondary school could, from the date of that circular admit to a class where English was used as a medium of instruction, any pupil other than pupils belonging to a section of citizens, the language of whom was English, viz, Anglo-Indians and citizens of non-Asiatic descent.
Precedent	The validity of the circular was challenged while admission was refused, inter alia, to a member of <ORG>.
Precedent	A number of writ petitions were filed and <ORG> allowed them.
Precedent	In an application filed by the State of Bombay, this <ORG> had to consider whether the said circular was ultra vires Article 29(2).
Precedent	In deciding this question, the <ORG> analyzed the provisions of Articles 29(2) and 30, and repelled the contention that Article 29(2) guaranteed the right only to the citizens of the minority group.
Precedent	It was observ ed, in this connection, at page 579, as follows:  ".....The language of Article 29(2) is wide and unqualified and may well cover all citizens whether they belong to the majority or minority group.
Precedent	Article 15 protects all citizens against the <ORG> whereas the protection of Article 29(2) extends against the <ORG> or anybody who denies the right conferred by it.
Precedent	Further Article 15 protects all citizens against discrimination generally but Article 29(2) is a protection against a particular species of wrong namely denial of admission into educational institutions of the specified kind.
Precedent	In the next place Article 15 is quite general and wide in its terms and applies to all citizens, whether they belong to the majority or minority groups, and gives protection to all the citizens against discrimination by the <ORG> on certain specific grounds.
Precedent	Article 29(2) confers a special right on citizens for admission into educational institutions maintained or aided by the <ORG>.
Precedent	To limit this right only to citizens belonging t o minority groups will be to provide a double protection for such citizens and to hold that the citizens of the majority group have no special educational rights in the nature of a right to be admitted into an educational institution for the maintenance of which they make contributions by way of taxes.
RatioOfTheDecision	We see no cogent reason for such discrimination.
RatioOfTheDecision	The heading under which Articles 29 and 30 are grouped together - namely "Cultural and Educational Rights" is quite general and does not in terms contemplate such differentiation.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the fact that the institution is maintained or aided out of <ORG> funds is the basis of this guaranteed right then all citizens, irrespective of whether they belong to the majority or minority groups; are alike entitled to the protection of this fundamental right....."  98.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is clear from the aforesaid discussion that this Court came to the conclusion that in the case of minority educational institutions to which protection was available under Article 30 , the provisions of Article  29(2) were indeed applicable.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, it may be seen that the question in the present from i.e., whether in the matter of admissions into aided minority educational institutions, minority students could be preferred to a reasonable extent, keeping in view the special protection given under Article 30(1 ), did not arise for consideration in that case.
RatioOfTheDecision	99.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the <ORG> case, this Court again had the occasion to consider the interplay of Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution.
Precedent	This case was a reference under Article 143(1) of the Constitution made by the President of India to obtain the opinion of this Court on certain questions relating to the constitutional validity of some of the provisions of the kerala Education Bill, 1957, which had been passed by <ORG>, but had been reserved by the Governor for the consideration of the President.
Precedent	Clause 3(5) of the Bill, made the recognition of new schools subject to the other provisions of the Bill and the rules framed by the Gove rnment under Clause (36); Clause (15) authorized the <ORG> to acquire any category of schools; Clause 8(3) made it obligatory on all aided schools to hand over the fees to the <ORG>; Clauses 9 to 13 made provisions for the regulation and management of the schools, payment of salaries to teachers and the terms and conditions of their appointment, and Clause (33) forbade the granting of temporary injunctions and interim orders in restraint of proceedings under the Act.
Precedent	100.
Precedent	With reference to Article 29(2 ), the <ORG> observed at page 1055, while dealing with an argument based on Article 337 that "likewise Article 29(2) provides, inter alia, that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution receiving did out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them".
Precedent	Referring to Part III of the Constitution and to Articles 19 and 25 to 28 in particular, the <ORG> said:-  ".....Under Article 25 all persons are equally entitled, subject to public order, m orality and health and to the other provisions of Part III, to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion.
Precedent	Article 26 confers the fundamental right to every religious denomination or any section thereof, subject to public order, morality and health, to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes, to manage its own affairs in matters of religion, to acquire property and to administer such property in accordance with law.
Precedent	The ideal being to constitute India into a secular <ORG>, no religious instruction is, under Article 28(1 ), to be provided in any educational institution wholly maintained out of <ORG> funds and under Clause (3) of the same Article no person attending any educational institution recognized by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds is to be required to take part in any religious instruction that may be imparted in such institution or to attend any religious worship that may be conducted in such institution or in a ny premises attached thereto unless such person or, if such person is a minor, his guardian has given his consent thereto.
Precedent	Article 29(1) confers on any section of the citizens having a distinct language, script or culture of its own to have the right of conserving the same.
Precedent	Clause (2) of that Article provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them."
Precedent	101.
Precedent	Dealing with Articles 29 and 30 at page 1046, it was observed as follows:-  "Articles 29 and 30 are set out in Part III of our Constitution which guarantees our fundamental rights.
Precedent	They are grouped together under the sub- head "Cultural and Educational Rights".
Precedent	The text and the marginal notes of both the Articles show that their purpose is to confer those fundamental rights on certain sections of the community which constitute minority communities.
Precedent	Under clause (1) of Article 29 any section of the c itizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own has the right to conserve the same.
Precedent	It is obvious that a minority community can effectively conserve its language, script or culture by and through educational institutions and, therefore, the right to establish and maintain educational institutions of its choice is a necessary concomitant to the right to conserve its distinctive language, script or culture and that is what is conferred on all minorities by Article 30(1) which has hereinbefore been quoted in full.
Precedent	This right, however, is subject to Clause 2 or Article 29 which provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them."
Precedent	102.
Precedent	It had been, inter alia, contended on behalf of the state that if a single member of any other community is admitted in a school establish for a particul ar minority community, then the education institution would cease to be an educational institution established by that particular minority community.
Precedent	It was contended that because of Article 29(2 ), when an educational institution established by a minority community gets aid, it would be precluded from denying admission to members of other communities because of Article 29(2 ), and that as a consequence thereof, it would cease to be an educational institution of the choice of the minority community that established it.
Precedent	Repelling this argument, it was observed at pages 1051-51, as follows:-  ".....This argument does not appear to us to be warranted by the language of the Article itself.
Precedent	There is no such limitation in Article 30(1) and to accept this limitation will necessarily involve the addition of the words "for their own community" in the Article which is ordinarily not permissible according to well established rules of interpretation.
Precedent	Nor is it reasonable to assume that the purpose of Article 29(2) was to  deprive minority educational institutions of the aid they receive from the <ORG>.
Precedent	To say that an institution which receives aid on account of its being minority educational institution must not refuse to admit any member of any other community only on the grounds therein mentioned and then to say that as soon as such institution admit such an outsider it will cease to be a minority institution is tentamount to saying that minority institutions will not, as minority institutions, be entitled to any aid.
Precedent	The real import of Article 29(2) and Article 30(1) seems to us to be that they clearly contemplate a minority institution with a sprinkling of outsiders admitted into it.
Precedent	By admitting a non-member into it the minority institution does not shed its character and cease to be a minority institution.
Precedent	Indeed the object of conservation of the distinct language, script and culture of a minority may be better served by propagating the same amongst non-members of the particular minority community.
Precedent	In our opinion, it is  not possible to read this condition into Article 30(1) of the Constitution."
Precedent	103.
Precedent	It will be seen that the use of the expression "sprinkling of outsiders" in that case clearly implied the applicability of Article 29(2) to Article 30(1); the <ORG> held that when a minority educational institution received aid, outsiders would have to be admitted.
Precedent	This part of the state's contention was accepted, but what was rejected was the contention that by taking outsiders, a minority institution would cease to be an educational institution of the choice of the minority community that established it.
Precedent	The <ORG> concluded at page 1062, as follows:- "...We have already observed that Article 30(1) gives two rights to the minorities, (1) to establish and (2) to administer, educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The right to administer cannot obviously include the right to maladminister.
Precedent	The minority cannot surely ask for aid or recognition for an educational institution run by them in unhealthy surroundings, without any co mpetent teachers, possessing any semblance of qualification, and which does not maintain even a fair standard of teaching or which teaches matters subversive of the welfare of the scholars.
Precedent	It stands to reason, then, that the constitutional right to administer an educational institution of their choice does not necessarily militate against the claim of the <ORG> to insist that in order to grant aid the <ORG> may prescribe reasonable regulations to ensure the excellence of the institutions to be aided....."  104.
Precedent	While noting that Article 30 referred not only to religious minorities but also to linguistic minorities, it was held that the Article gave those minorities the right to establish educational institutions of their choice, and that no limitation could be placed on the subjects to be taught at such educational institutions and that general secular education is also comprehended within the scope of Article 30(1).
Precedent	It is to be noted that the argument addressed and answered in that case was whether a minori ty aided institution loses its character as such by admitting non-minority students in terms of Article 29(2).
Precedent	It was observed that the admission of 'sprinkling of outsiders' will not deprive the institution of its minority status.
Precedent	The opinion expressed therein does not really go counter to the ultimate view taken by us in regard to the inter-play of Articles 30(1) and 29(2)  105.
Precedent	<CITATION_751632> ., this Court had to consider the validity of an order issued by <ORG> whereby from the academic year 1955-56, 80% of the seats in the training colleges for teachers in non-government training colleges were to be reserved for the teachers nominated by the <ORG>.
Precedent	The petitioner, who belonged to the minority community, were, inter alia, running a training college for teachers, as also primary schools.
Precedent	The said primary schools and college were conducted for the benefit of the religious denomination of <ORG> and Indian Christians generally, though admission was not  denied to students belonging to other communities.
Precedent	The petitioners challenged the government order requiring 80% of the seats to be filled by nominees of the government, inter alia, on the ground that the petitioners were members of a religious denomination and that they constituted a religious minority, and that the educational institutions had been established primarily for the benefit of the Christian community.
Precedent	It was the case of the petitioners that the decision of the Government violated their fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 30(1), 26(a), (b), (c) and (d), and 19(1)(f) and (g).
Precedent	While interpreting Article 30 , it was observed by this <ORG> at pages 849-850 as under:- "....All minorities, linguistic or religious have by Article 30(1) an absolute right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice; and any law or executive direction which seeks to infringe the substance of that right under Article 30(1) would to that extent to void.
Precedent	This, however, is not to say that it is n ot open to the <ORG> to impose regulations upon the exercise of this right.
Precedent	The fundamental freedom is to establish and to administer educational institutions: it is a right to establish and administer what are in truth educational institutions, institutions which cater to the educational needs of the citizens, or sections thereof.
Precedent	Regulation made in the true interests of efficiency of instruction, discipline, health, sanitation, morality, public order and the like may undoubtedly be imposed.
Precedent	Such regulations are not restrictions on the substance of the right which is guaranteed: they secure the proper functioning of the institution, in matters educational."
Precedent	106.
Precedent	While coming to the conclusion that the right of the private training colleges to admit students of their choice was severely restricted, this <ORG> referred to the opinion in the <ORG> case, but distinguished it by observing that the <ORG> did not, in that case, lay down any test of reasonableness of the regulation.
Precedent	No general princ iple on which the reasonableness of a regulation may be tested was sought to be laid down in the Kerala Education Bill case and, therefore, it was held in <NAME> case that the opinion in that case was not an authority for the proposition that all regulative measures, which were not destructive or annihilative of the character of the institution established by the minority, provided the regulations were in the national or public interests, were valid.
Precedent	In this connection it was further held at page 856, as follows:-  "The right established by Article 30(1) is a fundamental right declared in terms absolute.
Precedent	Unlike the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by Article 19 , it is not subject to reasonable restrictions.
Precedent	It is intended to be a real right for the protection of the minorities in the matter of setting up of educational institutions of their own choice.
Precedent	The right is intended to be effective and is not to be whittled down by so-called regulative measures conceived in the interest not of the minorit y educational institution, but of the public or the nation as a whole.
Precedent	If every order which while maintaining the formal character of a minority institution destroys the power of administration is held justifiable because it is in the public or national interests, though not in its interest as an educational institution, the right guaranteed by Article 30(1) will be but a "teasing illusion", a promise of unreality.
Precedent	Regulations which may lawfully be imposed either by legislative or executive action as a condition of receiving grant or of recognition must be directed to making the institution while retaining its character as a minority institution effective as an educational institution.
Precedent	Such regulation must satisfy a dual test - the test of reasonableness, and the test that it is regulative of the educational character of the institution and is conducive to making the institution an effective vehicle of education for the minority community or other persons who resort to it."
Precedent	107.
Precedent	The aforesaid decision does i ndicate that the right under Article 30(1) is not so absolute as to prevent the government from making any regulation whatsoever.
Precedent	As already noted hereinabove, in <NAME> case, it was laid down that regulations made in the true interests of efficiency of instruction, discipline, health, sanitation, morality and public order could be imposed.
Precedent	If this is so, it is difficult to appreciate how the government can be prevented from framing regulations that are in the national interest, as it seems to be indicated in the passage quoted hereinabove.
Precedent	Any regulation framed in the national interest must necessarily apply to all educational institutions, whether run by the majority or the minority.
Precedent	Such a limitation must necessarily be read into Article 30.
Precedent	The right under Article 30(1) cannot be such as to override the national interest or to prevent the government from framing regulations in that behalf.
Precedent	It is, of course, true that government regulations cannot destroy the minority character of the institut ion or make the right to establish and administer a mere illusion; but the right under Article 30 is not so absolute as to be above the law.
Precedent	It will further be seen that in <NAME> case, no reference was made to Article 29(2) of the Constitution.
Precedent	This decision, therefore, cannot be an authority for the proposition canvassed before us.
Precedent	108.
Precedent	Out attention was invited to the decision in <CITATION_833521> ., but the said case has no application here.
Precedent	In that case, it was contended, on behalf of the State of Bihar, that as the protection to the minority under Article 29(1) was only a right to conserve a distinct language, script or culture of its own, the college did not qualify for the protection of Article 30(1) because it was not founded to conserve them and that consequently, it was open to all sections of the people.
Precedent	The question, therefore, was whether the college could claim the protection of Section 48-B of the Bihar Universities Act read with Article 30(1) of the Constitution, only if it prov ed that the educational institution was furthering the rights mentioned in Article 29(1).
Precedent	Section 48-B of the Bihar Universities Act exempted a minority educational institution based on religion or language from the operation of some of the other provisions of that Act.
Precedent	This <ORG>, while construing Article 30 , held that its width could not be cut down by introducing in it considerations on which Article 29(1) was based.
Precedent	Article 29(1) and 30(1) were held to create two separate rights, though it was possible that they might meet in a given case.
Precedent	While dealing with the contention of the state that the college would not be entitled to the protection under Article 30(1) because it was open to all sections of the people, the <ORG> referred to the observations in the Kerala Education Bill case, wherein it had been observed that the real import of Article 29(2) and Article 30(1) was that they contemplated a minority institution with a sprinkling of outsiders admitted into it.
Precedent	The <ORG> otherwise had no occasion to d eal with the applicability of Article 29(2) to Article 30(1).
Precedent	109.
Precedent	In <ORG>, Etc.
Precedent	v. Very Rev.
Precedent	Mother Provincial, Etc.
Precedent	[(1971) 1 SCR 734], the challenge was to various provisions of the Kerala University Act, 1969, whose provisions effected private colleges, particularly those founded by minority communities in the <ORG>.
Precedent	The said provisions, inter alia, sought to provide for the manner in which private colleges were to be administered through the constitution of the governing body or managing councils in the manner provided by the Act.
Precedent	Dealing with Article 30 , it was observed at pages 739-40 as follows:- " Article 30(1) has been construed before by this Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Without referring to those cases it is sufficient to say that the clause contemplates two rights which are separated in point of time.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first right is the initial right to establish institutions of the minority's choice.
RatioOfTheDecision	Establishment here means the bringing into being of an institution and it must be by a minority community.
RatioOfTheDecision	It matters not if a single philanthropic individual with his own means, founds the institution or the community at large contributes the funds.
RatioOfTheDecision	The position in law is the same and the intention in either case must be to found an institution for the benefit of a minority community by a member of that community.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is equally irrelevant that in addition to the minority community others from other minority communities or even from the majority community can take advantage of these institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such other communities bring in income and they do not have to be turned away to enjoy the protection.
RatioOfTheDecision	The next part of the right relates to the administration of such institutions.
Precedent	Administration means 'management of the affairs' of the institution.
Precedent	This management must be free of control so that the founders or their nominees can mould the institution as they think fit, and in accordance with their ideas of how the interest of the community in general and the institution in particular will be best served.
Precedent	No part of th is management can be taken away and vested in another body without an encroachment upon the guaranteed right."
Precedent	The <ORG>, however, pointed out that an exception to the right under Article 30 was the power with the state to regulate education, educational standards and allied matters.
Precedent	It was held that the minority institutions could not be allowed to fall below the standards of excellence expected of educational institutions or under guise of the exclusive right of management, allowed to decline to follow general pattern.
Precedent	The <ORG> stated that while the management must be left to minority, they may be compelled to keep in step with others.
Precedent	110.
Precedent	The interplay of Article 29 and Article 30 came up for consideration again before this <ORG> in the <ORG> case [1971 (Supp.)
Precedent	SCR 688].
Precedent	Some of the provisions of the Guru Nanak University Act established after the reorganization of the State of Punjab in 1969 provided for the manner in which the governing body was to be constituted; the body was to include a r epresentative of the <ORG> and a member of the <ORG>.
Precedent	These and some other provisions were challenged on the ground that they were violative of Article 30.
Precedent	In this connection at page 695, it was observed as follows:-  "It will be observed that Article 29(1) is wider than Article 30(1 ), in that, while any Section of the citizens including the minorities, can invoke the rights guaranteed under Article 29(1 ), the rights guaranteed under Article 30(1) are only available to the minorities based on religion or language.
Precedent	It is not necessary for Article 30(1) that the minority should be both a religion minority as well as a linguistic minority.
Precedent	It is sufficient if it is one or the other or both.
Precedent	A reading of these two Articles together would lead us to conclude that a religious or linguistic minority has a right to establish and administer educational institutions of its choice for effectively conserving its distinctive language, script or culture, which right however is subject to the regulatory power of th e <ORG> for maintaining and facilitating the excellence of its standards.
Precedent	This right is further subject to Clause (2) of Article 29 which provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution which is maintained by the <ORG> or receives aid out of <ORG> funds, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	While this is so these two articles are not inter-linked nor does it permit of their being always read together."
Precedent	Though it was observed that Article 30(1) is subject to 29(2), the question whether the preference to minority students is altogether excluded, was not considered.
Precedent	111.
Precedent	One of the questions that arose in this case was as to whether the petitioner was a minority institution.
Precedent	In this case, it was also observed that the Hindus of Punjab were a religion minority in the <ORG> of Punjab and that, therefore, they were entitled to the protection of Article 30(1).
Precedent	Three of the provisions, which were sought to be challenged as being violative of Article  30 , were Clauses 2(1), 17 and 18 of the Statutes framed by the <ORG> under Section 19 of the <ORG> Act.
Precedent	Clause 2(1)(a) provided that, for seeking affiliation, the college was to have a governing body of not more than 20 persons approved by the <ORG> and including, amongst others, two representatives of the <ORG> and a member of the <ORG>.
Precedent	Clause 17 required the approval of the Vice- Chancellor for the staff initially appointed by the <ORG>.
Precedent	The said provision also provided that all subsequent changes in the staff were to be reported to the Vice-Chancellor for his/her approval.
Precedent	Clause 18 provided that non-government colleges were to comply with the requirements laid down in the ordinances governing the service and conduct of teachers in non- government colleges, as may be framed by the <ORG>.
Precedent	After referring to Kerala Education Bill, Sidhajb (SIC) Sabhai and Rev.
Precedent	Father <NAME>, this Court held that there was no justification for the provisions contained in Clause 2(1)(a) and Clause  17 of the statutes as the interfered with the rights of management of the minority educational institutions, <NAME>, observed that "these provisions cannot, therefore, be made as conditions of affiliation, the non-compliance of which would involved disaffiliation and consequently they will have to be struck down as offending Article 30(1)."
Precedent	112.
Precedent	Clause 18, however, was held not to suffer from the same vice as Clause 17 because the provision, insofar as it was applicable to the minority institutions, empowered the <ORG> to prescribe by-regulations governing the service and conduct of teachers, and that this was in the larger interest of the institutions, and in order to ensure their efficiency and excellence.
Precedent	In this connection, it was observed at page 709, that:-  "Uniformity in the conditions of service and conduct of teachers in all <ORG> Colleges would make for harmony and avoid frustration.
Precedent	Of course while the power to make ordinances in respect of the matters referred to  is unexceptional the nature of the infringement of the right, if any, under Article 30(1) will depend on the actual purpose and import of the ordinance when made and the manner in which it is likely to affect the administration of the educational institution, about which it is not possible now to predicate."
Precedent	113.
Precedent	In <ORG> and <NAME> v. State of Gujarat and Anr., this Court had to consider the constitutional validity of certain provisions of the Gujarat <ORG> Act, 1949, insofar as they were made to apply to the minority Christian institution.
Precedent	The impugned provisions, inter alia, provided that the <ORG> may determine that all instructions, teaching and training in courses of studies, in respect of which the <ORG> was competent to hold examinations, would be conducted by the <ORG> and would be imparted by the teachers of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another provision provided that new colleges that may seek affiliation, were to be the constituent colleges of the <ORG> iversity.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> considered the scope and ambit of the rights of the minorities, whether based on religion or language, to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice under Article 30(1) of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In dealing with this aspect, <NAME>, <NAME>, at page 192, while considering Article 25 to 30, observed as follows:-  "Every section of the public, the majority as well as minority has rights in respect of religion as contemplated in Articles 25 and 26 and rights in respect of language, script, culture as contemplated in Article 29.
RatioOfTheDecision	The whole object of conferring the right on minorities under Article 30 is to ensure that there will be equality between the majority and the minority.
Precedent	If the minorities do not have such special protection they will be denied equality."
Precedent	114.
Precedent	Elaborating on the meaning and intent of Article 30 , the learned Chief Justice further observed as follows:-  "The real reason embodied in Article 30(1) of the Constitution is the conscience of the nation that the mino rities, religious as well as linguistic, are not prohibited from establishing and administering educational institutions of their choice for the purpose of giving their children the best general education to make them complete men and women of the country.
Precedent	The minorities are given this protection under Article 30 in order to preserve and strengthen the integrity and unity of the country.
Precedent	The sphere of general secular education is intended to develop the commonness of boys and girls of our country.
Precedent	This is in the true spirit of liberty, equality and fraternity through the medium of education.
Precedent	If religious or linguistic minorities are not given protection under Article 30 to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice, they will feel isolated and separate.
Precedent	General secular education will open doors of perception and act as the natural light of mind for our countrymen to live in the whole."
Precedent	115.
Precedent	The <ORG> then considered whether the religious and linguistic minorities, who have the right to  establish and administer educational institutions of their choice, had a fundamental right to affiliation.
Precedent	Recognizing that the affiliation to a <ORG> consisted of two parts, the first part relating to syllabi, curricula, courses of instruction, the qualifications of teachers, library, laboratories, conditions regarding health and hygiene of students (aspects relating to establishment of educational institutions), and the second part consisting of terms and conditions regarding the management of institutions, it was held that with regard to affiliation, a minority institution must follow the statutory measures regulating educational standards and efficiency, prescribed courses of study, courses of instruction, the principles regarding the qualification of teachers, educational qualifications for entry of students into educational institutions, etc.
Precedent	116.
Precedent	While considering the right of the religious and linguistic minorities to administer their educational institutions, it was observed by <NAME>, C.J., at p age 194, as follows:-  ".....The right to administer is said to consist of four principal matters.
Precedent	First is the right to choose its managing or governing body.
Precedent	It is said that the founders of the minority institution have faith and confidence in their own committee or body consisting of persons selected by them.
Precedent	Second is the right to choose its teachers.
Precedent	It is said that minority institutions want teachers to have compatibility with the ideals, aims and aspirations of the institution.
Precedent	Third is the right not to be compelled to refuse admission to students.
Precedent	In other words, the minority institutions want to have the right to admit students of their choice subject to reasonable regulations about academic qualifications.
Precedent	Fourth is the right to use its properties and assets for the benefit of its own institution."
Precedent	117.
Precedent	While considering this right to administer,it was held that the same was not an absolute right and that the right was not free from regulation.
Precedent	While referring to the observations of <NAME>, C.J., in t he Kerala Education Bill case, it was reiterated in the <ORG> case that the right to administer was not a right to mal-administer.
Precedent	Elaborating the minority's right to administer at page 196, it was observed as follows:- ".....The minority institutions have the right to administer institutions.
Precedent	This right implies the obligation and duty of the minority institutions to render the very best to the students.
Precedent	In the right of administration, checks and balances in the shape of regulatory measures are required to ensure the appointment of good teachers and their conditions of service.
Precedent	The right to administer is to be tempered with regulatory measures to facilitate smooth administration.
Precedent	The best administration will reveal no trace colour of minority.
Precedent	A minority institution should shine in exemplary eclecticism in the administration of the institution.
Precedent	The best compliment that can be paid to a minority institution is that it does not rest on or proclaim its minority character."
Precedent	118.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME>, conclude d by observing at page 200, as follows:- "The ultimate goal of a minority institution too imparting general secular education is advancement of learning.
Precedent	This <ORG> has consistently held that it is not only permissible but also desirable to regulate everything in educational and academic matters for achieving excellence and uniformity in standards of education.
Precedent	In the field of administration it is not reasonable to claim that minority institutions will have complete autonomy.
Precedent	Checks on the administration may be necessary in order to ensure that the administration is efficient and sound and will serve the academic needs of the institution.
Precedent	The right of a minority to administer its educational institution involves, as part of it, a correlative duty of good administration."
Precedent	119.
Precedent	In a concurrent judgment, while noting that "Clause (2) of Article 29 forbids the denial of admission to citizens into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion,  race, caste, language or any of then", <NAME>, J. then examined Article 30 , and observed at page 222, as follows:- "Clause (1) of Article 30 gives right to all minorities, whether based on religion or language, to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice Analyzing that clause it would follow that the right which has been conferred by the clause is no two types of minorities.
Precedent	Those minorities may be based either on religion or on language.
Precedent	The right conferred upon the said minorities is to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The word "establish" indicates the rights to bring into existence, while the right to administer an institution means the right to effectively manage and conduct the affairs of the institution.
Precedent	Administration connotes management of the affairs of the institution.
Precedent	The management must be free of control so that the founders or their nominees can mould the institution as they think fit and in accordance with their ideas of how the inte rest of the community in general and the institution in particular will be best served.
Precedent	The words "of their choice" qualify the educational institutions and show that the educational institutions established and administered by the minorities need not be of some particular class; the minorities have the right and freedom to establish and administer such educational institutions as they choose.
Precedent	Clause (2) of Article 30 prevents the <ORG> from making discrimination in the matter of grant of aid to any educational institution on the ground that the institution is under the management of a minority whether based on religion or language.
Precedent	120.
Precedent	Explaining the rationale behind Article 30 , it was observed at page 224, as follows:-  "The idea of giving some special rights to the minorities is not to have a kind of a privileged or pampered section of the population but to give to the minorities a sense of security and a feeling of confidence.
Precedent	The great leaders of India since time immemorial had preached the doctrine o f tolerance and catholicity of outlook.
Precedent	Those noble ideas were enshrined in the Constitution.
Precedent	Special rights for minorities were designed not to create inequality.
Precedent	Their real effect was to bring about equality by ensuring the preservation of the minority institutions and by guaranteeing to the minorities autonomy in the matter of the administration of these institutions.
Precedent	The differential treatment for the minorities by giving them special rights is intended to bring about an equilibrium, so that the ideal of equality may not be reduced to a mere abstract idea but should become a living reality and result in true, genuine equality an equality not merely in theory but also in fact."
Precedent	121.
Precedent	While advocating that provisions of the Constitution should be construed according to the liberal, generous and sympathetic approach, and after considering the principles which could be discerned by him from the earlier decisions of this <ORG>, <NAME>, J., observed at page 234, as follows:-  "...The minorities are as much chil dren of the soil as the majority and the approach has been to ensure that nothing should be done as might deprive the minorities of a sense of belonging of a feeling of security, of a consciousness of equality and of the awareness that the conservation of their religion, culture, language and script as also the protection of their educational institutions is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution.
Precedent	The same generous, liberal and sympathetic approach should weigh with the courts in construing Articles 29 and 30 as marked the deliberations of the Constitution-makers in drafting those articles and making them part of the fundamental rights.
Precedent	The safeguarding of the interest of the minorities amongst sections of population is as important as the protection of the interest amongst individuals of persons who are below the age of majority or are otherwise suffering from some kind of infirmity.
Precedent	the Constitution and the laws made by civilized nations, therefore, generally contain provisions for the protection  of those interests.
Precedent	It can, indeed, be said to be an index of the level of civilization and catholicity of a nation as to how far their minorities feel secure and are not subject to any discrimination or suppression."
Precedent	122.
Precedent	The learned Judge then observed that the right of the minorities to administer educational institutions did not prevent the making of reasonable regulations in respect of these institutions.
Precedent	Recognizing that the right to administer educational institutions could not include the right to mal-administer, it was held that regulations could be lawfully imposed, for the receiving of grants and recognition, while permitting the institution to retain its character as a minority institution.
Precedent	The regulation "must satisfy a dual test -- the test of reasonableness, and the test that it is regulative of the educational character of the institution and is conductive to making the institution an effective vehicle of education for the minority community or other persons who resort to it."
Precedent	It was permiss ible for the authorities to prescribes regulations, which must be complied with, before a minority institution could seek or retain affiliation and recognition.
Precedent	But it was also stated that the regulations made by the authority should not impinge upon the minority character of the institution.
Precedent	Therefore, a balance has to be kept between the two objectives  -- that of ensuring the standard of excellence of the institution, and that of preserving the right of the minorities to establish and administer their educational institutions.
Precedent	Regulations that embraced and reconciled the two objectives could be considered to be reasonable.
Precedent	This, in our view, is the correct approach to the problem.
Precedent	123.
Precedent	After referring to the earlier cases in relation to the appointment of teachers, it was noted by <NAME>, J., that the conclusion which followed was that a law which interfered with a minority's choice of qualified teachers, or its disciplinary control over teachers and other members of the staff of the institution, was void , as it was violative of Article 30(1).
Precedent	While it was permissible for the state and its educational authorities to prescribe the qualifications of teachers, it was held that once the teachers possessing the requisite qualifications were selected by the minorities for their educational institutions, the state would have no right to veto the selection of those teachers.
Precedent	The selection and appointment of teachers for an educational institution was regarded as one of the essential ingredients under Article 30(1).
Argument	The <ORG>'s attention was drawn to the fact that in the <ORG> case, this <ORG> has opined that Clauses (11) and (12) made it obligatory for all aided schools to select teachers from a panel selected from each district by <ORG> and that no teacher of an aided school could be dismissed, removed or reduced in rank without the previous sanction of the authorized officer.
Argument	At page 245, <NAME>, J., observed that in cases subsequent to the opinion in <ORG> l case, this <ORG> had held similar provisions as Clause (11) and Clause (12) to be violative of Article 30(1) of the minority institution.
Argument	He then observed as follows:- "...The opinion expressed by this <ORG> in Re Kerala Education Bill (supra) was of an advisory character and though great weight should be attached to it because of its persuasive value, the said opinion cannot override the opinion subsequently expressed by this <ORG> in contested cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is the law declared by this <ORG> in the subsequent contested cases which would have a binding effect.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words "as at present advised" as well as the preceding sentence indicate that the view expressed by this <ORG> in Re Kerala Education Bill in this respect was hesitant and tentative and not a final view in the matter...."  124.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1241088> ., this <ORG> struck down the power of the Vice-Chancellor to veto the decision of the management to impose a penalty on a teacher.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was held that the power of the Vice- Chancellor, while hearing an appeal  against the imposition of the panel was uncanalized and unguided.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1492399> ., this Court upheld the application of industrial law to minority colleges, and it was held that providing a remedy against unfair dismissals would not infringe Article 30.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1993702> .
Precedent	[(1975) 3 SCR 810], a law which sought to regulate the working of minority institutions by providing that a broad-based management committee could be re-constituted by including therein the Principal and the senior-most teacher, was valid and not violative of the right under Article 30(1) of the Constitution.
Precedent	In <ORG>, <ORG> v. <ORG>, a regulation providing that no teacher would be dismissed, removed, or reduced in rank, or terminated otherwise except with the prior approval of the competent authority, was held to be invalid, as it sought to confer an unqualified power upon the competent authority.
Precedent	<CITATION_1331941> ., the regulation providing for prior approval for dismissal  was held to be invalid, while the provision for an appeal against the order of dismissal by an employee to a <ORG> was upheld.
Precedent	The regulation requiring prior approval before suspending an employee was held to be valid, but the provision, which exempted unaided minority schools from the regulation that equated the pay and other benefits of employees of recognized schools with those in schools run by the authority, was held to be invalid and violative of the equality clause.
Precedent	It was held by this <ORG> that the regulations regarding pay and allowances for teachers and staff would not violate Article 30.
Precedent	125.
Precedent	In the <ORG> case, the right of minorities to administer educational institutions and the applicability of Article 29(2) to an institution to which Article 30(1) was applicable came up for consideration.
Precedent	<ORG> claimed to be a minority institution, which was affiliated to <ORG>, the <ORG> had its own provisions with regard to the admission of students.
Precedent	This pro vision postulated that applications would be invited by the college by a particular date.
Precedent	The applications were processed and a cut-off percentage for each subject was determined by the Head of the respective <ORG> and a list of potentially suitable candidates was prepared on the basis of 1:4 and 1:5 ratios for Arts and Science students respectively, and they were then called for an interview (i.e., for every available seat in <ORG>, four candidates were called for interviews; similarly, for every available seat in <ORG>, five candidates were called for interviews).
Precedent	In respect of Christian Students, a relaxation of upto 10% was given in determining the cut-off point.
Precedent	Thereafter, the interviews were conducted and admission was granted.
Precedent	<ORG>, however, had issued a circular, which provided that admission should be granted to the various courses purely on the basis of merit, i.e., the percentage of marks secured by the students in the qualifying examination.
Argument	Th e said circular did not postulate any interview.
Argument	Thereafter, the admission policy of <ORG> was challenged by a petition under Article 32.
Argument	It was contended by the petitioners that the <ORG> was bound to follow the <ORG> policy, rules and regulations regarding admission, and further argued that it was not a minority institution, and in the alternative, it was not entitled to discriminate against students on the ground of religion, as the college was receiving grant-in-aid from the government, and that such discrimination was violative of Article 29(2).
Argument	The <ORG> had also filed a writ petition in <ORG> taking the stand that it was a religious minority institution, and that the circular of the <ORG> regarding admission violated its fundamental right under Article  30.
Argument	This <ORG> held that <ORG> was a minority institution.
Argument	With regard to the second question as to whether the college was bound by the <ORG> circulars regarding admission, this <ORG>, by a  majority of 4-1, upheld the admission procedure used by the <ORG>, even though it was different from the one laid down by the <ORG>.
Argument	In this context, the contention of the <ORG> was that it had been following its own admission programme for more than a hundred years and that it had built a tradition of excellence in a number of distinctive activities.
Argument	The <ORG> challenged the <ORG> circular on the ground that it was not regulatory in nature, and that it violated its right under Article 30.
Precedent	Its submission was that if students were admitted purely on the basis of marks obtained by them in the qualifying examination, it would not be possible for any Christian student to gain admission.
Precedent	The college had also found that unless a concession was afforded, the Christian students could not be brought within the zone of consideration as they generally lacked merit when compared to the other applicants.
Precedent	This Court referred to the earlier decisions, and with regard to Article 30(1 ), observed at page 596,  paragraph 54, as follows:- "The minorities whether based on religion or language have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The administration of educational institutions of their choice under Article 30(1) means 'management of the affairs of the institution'.
Precedent	This management must be free from control so that the founder or their nominees can mould the institution as they think fit, and in accordance with their ideas of how the interests of the community in general and the institution in particular will be best served.
Precedent	But the standards of education are not a part of the management as such.
Precedent	The standard concerns the body politic and is governed by considerations of the advancement of the country and its people.
Precedent	Such regulations do not bear directly upon management although they may indirectly affect it.
Precedent	The <ORG>, therefore has the right to regulate the standard of education and allied matters.
Precedent	Minority institutions cannot be permitted to fall below the standards of  excellence expected of educational institutions.
Precedent	They cannot decline to follow the general pattern of education under the guise of exclusive right of management.
Precedent	While the management must be left to them, they may be compelled to keep in step with others...."  126.
Precedent	It was further noticed that the right under Article 30(1) had to be read subject to the power of the state to regulate education, educational standards and allied matters.
Precedent	In this connection, at pages 598-99, paragraph 59, it was observed as follows:-  "The need for a detailed study on this aspect is indeed not necessary.
Precedent	The right to minorities whether religious or linguistic, to administer educational institutions and the power of the <ORG> to regulate academic matters and management is now fairly well settled.
Precedent	The right to administer does not include the right to maladminister.
Precedent	The <ORG> being the controlling authority has right and duty to regulate all academic matters.
Precedent	Regulations which will serve the interests of students and teachers, and to  preserve the uniformity in standards of education among the affiliated institutions could be made.
Precedent	The minority institutions cannot claim immunity against such general pattern and standard or against general laws such as laws relating to law and order, health, hygiene, labor relations, social welfare legislations, contracts, torts etc.
Precedent	which are applicable to all communities.
Precedent	So long as the basic right of minorities to manage educational institution is not taken away, the <ORG> is competent to make regulatory legislation.
Precedent	Regulations, however, shall not have the effect of depriving the right of minorities to educate their children in their own institution.
Precedent	That is a privilege which is implied in the right conferred by Article 30(1).
Precedent	127.
Precedent	Dealing with the question of the selection of students, it was accepted that the right to select students for admission was a part of administration, and that this power could be regulated, but it was held that the regulation must be reasonable and should be conducive to t he welfare of the minority institution or for the betterment of those who resort to it.
Precedent	Bearing this principle in mind, this Court took note of the fact that if the <ORG> was to admit students as per the circular issued by the <ORG>, it would have to deny admissions to the students belonging to the Christian community because of the prevailing situation that even after the concession, only a small number of minority applicants would gain admission.
Precedent	It was the case of the <ORG> that the selection was made on the basis of the candidate's academic record, and his/her performance at the interview keeping in mind his/her all round competence, his/her capacity to benefit from attendance at the <ORG>, as well as his/her capacity to benefit from attendance at the <ORG>, as well as his/her potential to contribute to the life of the <ORG>.
Precedent	While observing that the oral interview as a supplementary test and not as the exclusive test for assessing the suitability of the candidates for college admission had  been recognized by this <ORG>, this <ORG> observed that the admission programme of the college "based on the test of promise and accomplishment of candidates seems to be better than the blind method of selection based on the marks secured in the qualifying examinations."
Precedent	The <ORG> accordingly held that <ORG> was not bound by the impugned circulars of the <ORG>.
Precedent	This <ORG> then dealt with the question as to whether a preference in favour of, or a reservation of seats for candidates belonging to, its own community by the minority institutions would be invalid under Article 29(2) of the Constitution.
Precedent	After referring to the Constituent Assembly Debates and the proceedings of <ORG> that led to the incorporation of Articles 29 and 30, this <ORG> proceeded to examine the question of the true import and effect of Articles 29(2) and 30(1) of the Constitution.
Precedent	On behalf of the institutions, it was argued that a preference given to minority candidates in their own educational institut ions, on the ground that those candidates belonged to that minority community, was not violative of Article 29(2 ), and that in the exercise of Article 30(1 ), the minorities were entitled to establish and administer educational institutions for the exclusive advantage of their own community's candidates.
Precedent	This contention was not accepted by this <ORG> on two grounds.
Precedent	Firstly, it was held that institutional preference to minority candidates based on religion was apparently an institutional discrimination on the forbidden ground of religion -- the <ORG> stated that "if an educational institution says yes to one candidate but says no to other candidate on the ground of religion, it amounts to discrimination on the ground of religion.
Precedent	The mandate of Article 29(2) is that there shall not be any such discrimination."
Precedent	It further held that, as pointed out in the <ORG> case, the minorities could not establish educational institutions for the benefit of their own community alone.
Precedent	For if such was the aim , Article 30(1) would have been differently worded and it would have contained the words "for their own community".
Precedent	In this regard, it would be useful to bear in mind that the <ORG> at page 607, paragraph 81, noticed that:-  "Even in practice, such claims are likely to be met with considerable hostility.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may not be conducive to have a relatively homogeneous society.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may lead to religious bigotry which is the bane of mankind.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the nation building with secular character sectarian schools or colleges, segregated faculties or universities for imparting general secular education are undesirable and they may undermine secular democracy.
RatioOfTheDecision	They would be inconsistent with the central concept of secularism and equality embedded in the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every educational institution irrespective of community to which it belongs is a 'melting pot' in our national life.
RatioOfTheDecision	The students and teachers are the critical ingredients.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is there they develop respect for, and tolerance of, the cultures and beliefs of others.
Precedent	It  is essential therefore, that there should be proper mix of students of different communities in all educational institutions.
Precedent	128.
Precedent	The <ORG> then dealt with the contention on behalf of the <ORG> that the minority institutions receiving government aid were bound by the mandate of Article 29(2 ), and that they could not prefer candidates from their own community.
Precedent	The <ORG> referred to the decision in the case of <NAME> (supra), but observed as follows: ".....the fact that Article 29(2) applied to minorities as well as non- minorities did not mean that it was intended to nullify the special right guaranteed to minorities in Article 30(1).
Precedent	Article 29(2) deals with non- discrimination and is available only to individuals.
Precedent	General equality by non-discrimination is not the only need of minorities.
Precedent	Minority rights under majority rule implies more than non-discrimination; indeed, it begins with non-discrimination.
Precedent	Protection of interests and institutions and the advancement of opportunity are just  as important.
Precedent	Differential treatment that distinguishes them from the majority is a must to preserve their basic characteristics."
Precedent	129.
Argument	Dealing with the submission that in a secular democracy the government could not be utilized to promote the interest of any particular community, and that the minority institution was not entitled to state aid as of right, this <ORG>, at page 609, paragraph 87, held as follows:- "It is quite true that there is no entitlement to <ORG> grant for minority educational institutions.
Argument	There was only a stop-gap arrangement under Article 337 for the Anglo-Indian community to receive <ORG> grants.
Argument	There is no similar provision for other minorities to get grant from the <ORG>.
Argument	But under Article 30(2 ), the <ORG> is under an obligation to maintain equality of treatment in granting aid to educational institutions.
Precedent	Minority institutions are not to be treated differently while giving financial assistance.
Precedent	They are entitled to get the financial assistance much the same way as the instituti ons of the majority communities."
Precedent	130.
Precedent	It was further held that the state could lay down reasonable conditions for obtaining grant-in-aid and for its proper utilization, but that the state had no power to compel minority institutions to give up their rights under Article 30(1).
Precedent	After referring to the <ORG> case and <NAME> case, the <ORG> observed at page 609, paragraph 88, as follows:-  "....In the latter case this court observed at SCR pages 856-57 that the regulation which may lawfully be imposed as a condition of receiving grant must be directed in making the institution an effective minority educational institution.
Precedent	The regulation cannot change the character of the minority institution.
Precedent	Such regulations must satisfy a dual test; the test of reasonableness, and the test that it is regulative of the educational character of the institution.
Precedent	It must be conducive to making the institution and effective vehicle of education for the minority community or other persons who resort to  it.
Precedent	It is thus evident that the rights under Article 30(1) remain unaffected even after securing financial assistance from the government."
Precedent	131.
Precedent	After referring to the following observations in <ORG> case, "...The right of a religious or linguistic minority to establish and administer educational institutions of its choice under Article 30(1) is subject to the regulatory power of the <ORG> for maintaining and (sic)ng the excellence of its standards.
Precedent	This right is further subject to Article 29(2 ), which provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution which is maintained by the <ORG> or receives aid out of <ORG> funds, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them...."  the learned Judges remarked at page 610 (para 91) that in the said case, the <ORG> was not deciding the question that had arisen before them.
Precedent	132.
Precedent	According to the learned Judges, the question of the interplay of Article 29(2) with Article 30(1) had arisen in that case (St. Ste <NAME>'s case) for the first time, and had not been considered by the <ORG> earlier, they observed that "we are on virgin soil, not on trodden ground".
Precedent	Dealing with the interplay of these two Articles, it was observed, at page 612, paragraph 96, as follows:-  "The collective minority right is required to be made functional and is not to be reduced to useless lumber.
Precedent	A meaningful right must be shaped, moulded and created under Article 30(1 ), while at the same time affirming the right of individuals under Article 29(2).
Precedent	There is need to strike a balance between the two competing rights.
Precedent	It is necessary to mediate between Article 29(2) and Article 30(1 ), between letter and spirit of these articles, between traditions of the past and the convenience of the present, between society's need for stability and its need for change."
Precedent	133.
Precedent	The two competing rights are the right of the citizen not to be denied admission granted under Article 29(2 ), and right of the religious or linguistic minority to administer and esta blish an institution of its choice granted under Article 30(1).
Precedent	While treating Article 29(2) as a facet of equality, the <ORG> gave a contextual interpretation to Articles 29(2) and 30(1) while rejecting the extreme contention on both sides, i.e., on behalf of the institutions that Article 29(2) did not prevent a minority institution to preferably admit only members belonging to the minority community, and the contention on behalf of the <ORG> that Article 29(2) prohibited any preference in favour of a minority community for whose benefit the institution was established.
Precedent	The <ORG> concluded, at pages 613-14, para 102, as follows:-  "In the light of all these principles and factors, and in view of the importance which the Constitution attaches to protective measures to minorities under Article 30(1 ), the minority aided educational institutions are entitled to prefer their community candidates to maintain the minority character of the institutions subject of course to conformity with the <ORG> standard.
Precedent	T he <ORG> may regulate the intake in this category with due regard to the need of the community in the area which the institution is intended to serve.
Precedent	But in no case such intake shall exceed 50 per cent of the annual admission.
Precedent	The minority institutions shall make available at least 50 per cent of the annual admission to members of communities other than the minority community.
Precedent	The admission of other community candidates shall be done purely on the basis of merit."
Precedent	134.
Precedent	If we keep these basic features, as highlighted in <NAME> case, in view, then the real purposes underlying Articles 29(2) and 30 can be better appreciated.
Precedent	135.
Precedent	We agree with the contention of the learned Solicitor General that the Constitution in Part III does not contain or give any absolute right.
Precedent	All rights conferred in Part III of the Constitution are subject to at least other provisions of the said Part.
Precedent	It is difficult to comprehend that the framers of the Constitution would have given such an absolute right to the religious or  linguistic minority which would enable them to establish and administer educational institutions in manner so as to be in conflict with the other Parts of the Constitution.
Precedent	We find difficult to accept that in the establishment and administration of educational institutions by the religious and linguistic minorities, no law of the land, even the Constitution, is to apply to them.
Precedent	136.
Precedent	Decisions of this Court have held that the right to administer does not include the right to mal-administer.
Precedent	It has also been held that the right to administer is not absolute, but must be subject to reasonable regulations for the benefit of the institutions as the vehicle of education, consistent with national interest.
Precedent	General laws of the land applicable to all persons have been held to be applicable to the minority institutions also -- for example, laws relating to taxation, sanitation, social welfare, economic regulation, public order and morality.
Precedent	137.
Precedent	It follows from the aforesaid decisions that even though the words of  Article 30(1) are unqualified, this <ORG> has held that at least certain other laws of the land pertaining to health, morality and standards of education apply.
Precedent	The right under Article 30(1) has, therefore, not been held to be absolute or above other provisions of the law, and we reiterate the same.
Precedent	By the same analogy, there is no reason why regulations or conditions concerning, generally, the welfare of students and teachers should not be made applicable in order to provide a proper academic atmosphere, as such provisions do not in any way interfere with the right of administration or management under Article 30(1).
Precedent	138.
Precedent	As we look at it, Article 30(1) is a sort of guarantee or assurance to the linguistic and religious minority institutions of their right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	Secularism and equality being two of the basic features of the Constitution, Article 30(1) ensures protection to the linguistic and religious minorities, thereby preserving the secular ism of the country.
Precedent	Furthermore, the principles of equality must necessarily apply to the enjoyment of such rights.
Precedent	No law can be framed that will discriminate against such minorities with regard to the establishment and administration of educational institutions vis-a-vis other educational institutions.
Precedent	Any law or rule or regulation that would put the educational institutions run by the minorities at a disadvantage when compared to the institutions run by the others will have to be struck down.
Precedent	At the same time, there also cannot be any reverse discrimination.
Precedent	It was observed in <ORG> case, at page 192, that "the whole object of conferring the right on minorities under Article 30 is to ensure that there will be equality between the majority and the minority.
Precedent	If the minorities do not have such special protection, they will be dented equality."
Precedent	In other words, the essence of Article 30(1) is to ensure equal treatment between the majority and the minority institutions.
Precedent	No one type or category of i nstitution should be disfavoured or, for that matter, receive more favourable treatment than another.
Precedent	Laws of the land, including rules and regulations, must apply equally to the majority institutions as well as to the minority institutions.
Precedent	The minority institutions must be allowed to do what the non- minority institutions are permitted to do.
Precedent	139.
Precedent	Like any other private unaided institutions, similar unaided educational institutions administered by linguistic or religious minorities are assured maximum autonomy in relation thereto; e.g., method of recruitment of teachers, charging of fees and admission of students.
Precedent	They will have to comply with the conditions of recognition, which cannot be such as to whittle down the right under Article 30.
Precedent	140.
Precedent	We have now to address the question of whether Article 30 gives a right to ask for a grant or aid from the state, and secondly, if it does get aid, to examine to what extent its autonomy in administration, specifically in the matter of admission to the educationa l institution established by the community, can be curtailed or regulated.
Precedent	141.
Precedent	The grant of aid is not a constitutional imperative.
Precedent	Article 337 only gives the right to assistance by way of grant to the Anglo-Indian community for a specified period of time.
Precedent	If no aid is granted to anyone, Article 30(1) would not justify a demand for aid, and it cannot be said that the absence of aid makes the right under Article 30(1).
Precedent	The founding fathers have not incorporated the right to grants in Article 30 , whereas they have done so under Article 337; what, then, is the meaning, scope and effect of Article 30(2)?
Precedent	Article 30(2) only means what it states, viz that a minority institution shall not be discriminated against when aid to educational institutions is granted.
Precedent	In other words the state cannot, when it chooses to grant aid to educational institutions, deny aid to a religious or linguistic minority institution only on the ground that the management of that institution is with the minority.
Precedent	We would, however, like  to clarify that if an object surrender of the right to management is made a condition of aid, the denial of aid would be violative of Article 30(2).
Precedent	However, conditions of aid that do not involve a surrender of the substantial right of management would not be inconsistent with constitutional guarantees, even if they indirectly impinge upon some fact of administration.
Precedent	If, however, aid were denied on the ground that the educational institution is under the management of a minority, then such a denial would be completely invalid.
Precedent	142.
Precedent	The implication of Article 30(2) is also that it recognizes that the minority nature of the institution should continue, notwithstanding the grant of aid.
Precedent	In other words, when a grant is given to all institutions for imparting secular education, a minority institution is also entitled to receive it subject to the fulfillment of the requisite criteria, and the state gives the grant knowing that a linguistic or minority educational institution will also receive the same.
Precedent	Of course,  the state cannot be compelled to grant aid, but the receipt of aid cannot be a reason for altering the nature of character of the incipient educational institution.
Precedent	143.
Precedent	This means that the right under Article 30(1) implies that any grant that is given by the state to the minority institution cannot have such conditions attached to it, which will in any way dilute or abridge the rights of the minority institution to establish and administer that institution.
Precedent	The conditions that can normally be permitted to be imposed, on the educational institutions receiving the grant, must be related to the proper utilization of the grant and fulfillment of the objectives of the grant.
Precedent	Any such secular conditions so laid, such as a proper audit with regard to the utilization of the funds and the manner in which the funds are to be utilized, will be applicable and would not dilute the minority status of the educational institutions.
Precedent	Such conditions would be valid if they are also imposed on other educational institutions r eceiving the grant.
Precedent	144.
Precedent	It cannot be argued that no conditions can be imposed while giving aid to a minority institution.
Precedent	Whether it is an institution run by the majority or the minority, all conditions that have relevance to the proper utilization of the grant-in-aid by an educational institution can be imposed.
Precedent	All that Article 30(2) states is that on the ground that an institution is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language, grant of aid to that educational institution cannot be discriminated against, if other educational institutions are entitled to received aid.
Precedent	The conditions for grant or non-grant of aid to educational institutions have to be uniformly applied, whether it is a majority-run institution or a minority-run institution.
Precedent	As in the case of a majority-run institution, the moment a minority institution obtains a grant of aid, Article 28 of the Constitution comes into play.
Precedent	When an educational institution is maintained out of <ORG> funds, no religious instituti on can be provided therein.
Precedent	Article 28(1) does not state that it applies only to educational institutions that are not established or maintained by religious or linguistic minorities.
Precedent	Furthermore, upon the receipt of aid, the provisions of Article 28(3) would apply to all educational institutions whether run by the minorities or the non-minorities.
Precedent	Article 28(3) is the right of a person studying in a state recognized institution or in an educational institution receiving aid from state funds, not to take part in any religious instruction, if imparted by such institution, without his/her consent (or his/her guardian's consent if such a person is a minor).
Precedent	Just as Article 28(1) and (3) become applicable the moment any educational institution takes aid, likewise, Article 29(2) would also be attracted and become applicable to an educational institution maintained by the state or receiving aid out of state funds.
Precedent	It was strenuously contended that the right to give admission is one of the essential ingredients of t he right to administer conferred on the religious or linguistic minority, and that this right should not be curtailed in any manner.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is difficult to accept this contention.
RatioOfTheDecision	If Article 23(1) and (3) apply to a minority institution that receives aid out of state funds, there is nothing in the language of Article 30 that would make the provisions of Article 29(2) inapplicable.
RatioOfTheDecision	Like Article 28(1) and Article 28(3 ), Article 29(2) refers to "any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds".
RatioOfTheDecision	A minority institution would fall within the ambit of Article 29(2) in the same manner in which Article 28(1) and Article 28(3) would be applicable to an aided minority institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	it is true that one of the rights to administer an educational institution is to grant admission to the students.
RatioOfTheDecision	As long as an educational institution, whether belonging to the minority or the majority community, does not receive aid, it would, in our opinion, be its right and discretion to grant admission  to such students as it chooses or selects subject to what has been clarified before.
RatioOfTheDecision	Out of the various rights that the minority institution has in the administration of the institution, Article 29(2) curtails the right to grant admission to a certain extent.
Precedent	By virtue of Article 29(2 ), no citizen can be denied admission by an aided minority institution on the grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	It is no doubt true that Article 29(2) does curtail one of the powers of the minority institution, but on receiving aid, some of the rights that an unaided minority institution has are also curtailed by Article 28(1) and 28(3).
Precedent	A minority educational institution has a right to impart religious instruction - this right is taken away by Article 28(1 ), if that minority institution is maintained wholly out of state funds.
Precedent	Similarly on receiving aid out of state funds or on being recognized by the state, the absolute right of a minority institution requiring a student to attend religious inst ruction is curtailed by Article 28(3).
Precedent	If the curtailment of the right to administer a minority institution on receiving aid or being wholly maintained out of state funds as provided by Article 28 is valid, there is no reason why Article 29(2) should not be held to be applicable.
Precedent	There is nothing in the language of Article 28(1) and (3 ), Article 29(2) and Article 30 to suggest that on receiving aid, Article 28(1) and (3) will apply, but Article 29(2) will not.
Precedent	Therefore, the contention that the institutions covered by Article 30 are outside the injunction of Article 29(2) cannot be accepted.
Precedent	145.
Precedent	What is the true scope and effect of Article 29(2)?
Precedent	Article 29(2) is capable of two interpretations--one interpretation, which is put forth by the Solicitor General and the other counsel for the different States, is that a minority institution receiving aid cannot deny admission to any citizen on the grounds of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	In other words, the minority institution, once it takes  any aid, cannot make any reservation for its own community or show a preference at the time of admission, i.e., if the educational institution was a private unaided minority institution, it is free to admit all students of its own community, but once aid is received, Article 29(2) makes it obligatory on the institution not to deny admission to a citizen just because he does not belong to the minority community that has established the institution.
Precedent	146.
Precedent	The other interpretation that is put forth is that Article 29(2) is a protection against discrimination on the ground of religion, race, caste or language, and does not in any way come into play where the minority institution prefers students of its choice.
Precedent	To put it differently, denying admission, even though seats are available, on the ground of the applicant's religion, race, caste or language, is prohibited, but preferring students of minority groups does not violate Article 29(2).
Precedent	147.
Statute	It is relevant to note that though Article 29 carries the head note  "Protection of interests of minorities" it does not use the expression "minorities" in its text.
Statute	The original proposal of <ORG> in <ORG> recommended the following:- ""(1) Minorities in every unit shall be protected in respect of their language, script and culture and no laws or regulations may be enacted that may operate oppressively or prejudicially in this respect" [<NAME>, "Select Documents" (1957) Vol.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 page 281] But after the clause was considered by the drafting <ORG> on 1st November, 1947, it emerged with substitute of 'section of citizen'.
RatioOfTheDecision	[<NAME>, Select Documents (1957) Vol.
RatioOfTheDecision	3, pages 525-26.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clause 23, Draft Constitution].
RatioOfTheDecision	It was explained that the intention had always been to use 'minority' in a wide sense, so as to include (for example) Maharashtrians who settled in Bengal.
RatioOfTheDecision	(7 C.A.D.
RatioOfTheDecision	pages 922-23)"  148.
RatioOfTheDecision	Both Articles 29 and 30 from a part of the fundamental rights Chapter in Part III of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 30 is confined to minorities, be i t religious or linguistic, and unlike Article 29(1 ), the right available under the said Article cannot be availed by any section of citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	The main distinction between Article 29(1) and Article 30(1) is that in the former, the right is confined to conservation of language, script or culture.
RatioOfTheDecision	As was observed in the <NAME> case, the right given by Article 29(1) is fortified by Article 30(1 ), insofar as minorities are concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the <ORG> case, it was held that the right to establish an educational institution is not confined to conservation of language, script or culture.
RatioOfTheDecision	When constitutional provisions are interpreted, it has to be borne in mind that the interpretation should be such as to further the object of their incorporation.
RatioOfTheDecision	They cannot be read in isolation and have to be read harmoniously to provide meaning and purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	They cannot be interpreted in a manner that renders another provision redundant.
RatioOfTheDecision	If necessary, a purposive and harmonious interpretation should be given.
RatioOfTheDecision	149.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although the right to administer includes within it a right to grant admission to students of their choice under Article 30(1 ), when such a minority institution is granted the facility of receiving grant-in-aid, Article 29(2) would apply, and necessarily, therefore, one of the right of administration of the minorities would be eroded to some extent.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 30(2) is an injunction against the state not to discriminate against the minority educational institution and prevent it from receiving aid on the ground that the institution is under the management of a minority.
RatioOfTheDecision	While, therefore, a minority educational institution receiving grant-in-aid would not be completely outside the discipline of Article 29(2) of the Constitution by no stretch of imagination can the rights guaranteed under Article 30(1) be annihilated.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is this context that some interplay between Article 29(2) and Article 30(1) is required.
RatioOfTheDecision	As observed quite aptly in <ORG> case "the fact that Article 29(2) applies to minorities as  well as non-minorities does not mean that it was intended to nullify the special right guaranteed to minorities in Article 30(1)."
RatioOfTheDecision	The word "only" used in Article 29(2) is of considerable significance and has been used for some avowed purpose.
Precedent	Denying admission to non-minorities for the purpose of accommodating minority students to a reasonable extent will not be only on grounds of religion etc., but is primarily meant to preserve the minority character of the institution and to effectuate the guarantee under Article 30(1).
Precedent	The best possible way is to hold that as long as the minority educational institution permits admission of citizens belonging to the non-minority class to a reasonable extent based upon merit, it will not be an infraction of Article 29(2 ), even though the institution admits students of the minority group of its own choice for whom the institution was meant.
Precedent	What would be a reasonable extent would depend upon variable factors, and it may not be advisable to fix any specific percentage.
Precedent	The  situation would vary according to the type of institution and the nature of education that is being imparted in the institution.
Precedent	Usually, at the school level, although it may be possible to fill up all the seats with students of the minority group, at the higher level, either in colleges or in technical institutions, it may not be possible to fill up all the seats with the students of the minority group.
Precedent	However, even if it is possible to fill up all the seats with students of the minority group, the moment the institution is granted aid, the institution will have to admit students of the non-minority group to a reasonable extent, whereby the character of the institution is not annihilated, and at the same time, the rights of the citizen engrafted under Article 29(2) are not subverted.
Precedent	It is for this reason that a variable percentage of admission of minority students depending on the type of institution and education is desirable, and indeed, necessary, to promote the constitutional guarantee enshrined in bo th Article 29(2) and Article 30.
Precedent	150.
Precedent	At this stage, it will be appropriate to refer to the following observations of <NAME>, in <CITATION_1363234> .
Precedent	[1992 Supp.
Precedent	(3) SCC 215] at page 657, paragraph 683, as follows:- "Before we proceed to deal with the question, we may be permitted to make a few observations: The questions arising herein are not only of great moment and consequence, they are also extremely delicate and sensitive.
Precedent	They represent complex problems of Indian society, wrapped and presented to us as constitutional and legal questions.
RatioOfTheDecision	On some of these questions, the decisions of this <ORG> have not been uniform.
RatioOfTheDecision	They speak with more than one voice.
RatioOfTheDecision	Several opposing points of view have been pressed upon us with equal force and passion and quite often with great emotion.
RatioOfTheDecision	We recognize that these viewpoints are held genuinely by the respective exponents.
RatioOfTheDecision	Each of them feels his own point of view is the only right one.
RatioOfTheDecision	We cannot, however, agree with all of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have to find--and we ha ve tried our best to find--answers which according to us are the right ones constitutionally and legally.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though, we are sitting in a larger <ORG>, we have kept in mind the relevance and significance of the principle of stare decisis.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are conscious of the fact that in law certainty, consistency and continuity are highly desirable features.
RatioOfTheDecision	Where a decision has stood the test of time and has never been doubted, we have respected it--unless, of course, there are compelling and strong reasons to depart from it.
Precedent	Where, however, such uniformity is not found, we have tried to answer the question on principle keeping in mind the scheme and goal of our Constitution and the material placed before us."
Precedent	151.
Precedent	The right of the aided minority institution to preferably admit students of its community, when Article 29(2) was applicable, has been clarified by this <ORG> over a decade ago in the <ORG> case.
Precedent	While upholding the procedure for admitting students, this <ORG> also held that aided minority educat ional institutions were entitled to preferably admit their community candidates so as to maintain the minority character of the institution, and that the state may regulate the intake in this category with due regard to the area that the institution was intended to serve, but that this intake should not be more than 50% in any case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, <ORG> endeavoured to strike a balance between the two Articles.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though we accept the ratio of <ORG>, which has held the field for over a decade, we have compelling reservations in accepting the rigid percentage stipulated therein.
RatioOfTheDecision	As Article 29 and Article 30 apply not only to institutions of higher education but also to schools, a ceiling of 50% would not be proper.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be more appropriate that depending upon the level of the institution, whether it be a primary or secondary or high school or a college, professional or otherwise, and on the population and educational needs of the area in which the institution is to be located the state properly balances  the interests of all by providing for such a percentage of students of the minority community to be admitted, so as to adequately serve the interest of the community for which the institution was established.
Precedent	152.
Precedent	At the same time, the admissions to aided institutions, whether awarded to minority or non-minority students, cannot be at the absolute sweet will and pleasure of the management of minority educational institutions.
Precedent	As the regulations to promote academic excellence and standards do not encroach upon the guaranteed rights under Article 30 , the aided minority educational institutions can be required to observe inter se merit amongst the eligible minority applicants and passage of common entrance test by the candidates, where there is one, with regard to admissions in professional and non-professional colleges.
Precedent	If there is no such test, a rational method of assessing comparative merit has to be evolved.
Precedent	As regards the non-minority segment, admission may be on the basis of the common entrance test and  counselling by a state agency.
Precedent	In the courses for which such a test and counselling are not in vogue, admission can be on the basis of relevant criteria for the determination of merit.
Precedent	It would be open to the state authorities to insist on allocating a certain percentage of seats to those belonging to weaker sections of society, from amongst the non-minority seats.
Precedent	153.
RatioOfTheDecision	We would, however, like to clarify one important aspect at this stage.
RatioOfTheDecision	The aided linguistic minority educational institution is given the right to admit students belonging to the linguistic minority to a reasonable extent only to ensure that its minority character is preserved and that the objective of establishing the institution is not defeated.
RatioOfTheDecision	If so, such an institution is under an obligation to admit the bulk of the students fitting into the description of the minority community.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the students of that group residing in the state in which the institution is located have to be necessarily admitted in a large measure because they  constitute the linguistic minority group as far as that state is concerned.
Precedent	In other words, the predominance of linguistic students hailing from the state in which the minority educational institution is established should be present.
Precedent	The management bodies of such institution cannot resort to the device of admitting the linguistic students of the adjoining state in which they are in a majority, under the facade of the protection given under Article 30(1).
Precedent	If not, the very objective of conferring the preferential right of admission by harmoniously constructing Articles 30(1) and 29(2), which we have done above, may be distorted.
Precedent	154.
Precedent	We are rightly proud of being the largest democracy in the world.
Precedent	The essential ingredient of democracy is the will and the right of the people to elect their representatives from amongst a government is formed.
Precedent	155.
Precedent	It will be wrong to presume that the government or the legislature will act against the Constitution or contrary to the public or national interest at all times.
Precedent	V iewing every action of the government with skepticism, and with the belief that it must be invalid unless proved otherwise, goes against the democratic form of government.
Precedent	It is no doubt true that the <ORG> has the power and the function to see that no one including the government acts contrary to the law, but the cardinal principle of our jurisprudence is that it is for the person who alleges that the law has been violated to prove it to be so.
Precedent	In such an event, the action of the government or the authority may have to be carefully examined, but it is improper to proceed on the assumption that, merely because an allegation is made, the action impugned or taken must be bad in law.
Precedent	Such being the position, when the government frames rules and regulations or lays down norms, specially with regard to eduction, one must assume that unless shown otherwise, the action taken is in accordance with law.
Precedent	Therefore, it will not be in order to so interpret a Constitution, and Article 29 and 30 in particular, on the presu mption that the state will normally not act in the interest of the general public or in the interest of concerned sections of the society.
Precedent	CONCLUSION Equality and Secularism  156.
Precedent	Our country is often depicted as a person in the form of "<NAME>  -- Mother India".
Precedent	The people of India are regarded as her children with their welfare being in her heart.
Precedent	Like and loving mother, the welfare of the family is of paramount importance for her.
Precedent	157.
Precedent	For a healthy family, it is important that each member is strong and healthy.
RatioOfTheDecision	But then, all members do not have the same constitution, whether physical and/or mental.
RatioOfTheDecision	For harmonious and healthy growth, it is natural for the parents, and the mother in particular, to give more attention and food to the weaker child so as to help him/her become stronger.
RatioOfTheDecision	Giving extra food and attention and ensuring private tuition to help in his/her studies will, in a sense, amount to giving the weaker child preferential treatment.
RatioOfTheDecision	Just as lending physical support to the aged and the inf irm, or providing a special diet, cannot be regarded as unfair or unjust, similarly, conferring certain rights on a special class, for good reasons, cannot be considered inequitable.
RatioOfTheDecision	All the people of India are not alike, and that is why preferential treatment to a special section of the society is not frowned upon.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 30 is a special right conferred on the religious and linguistic minorities because of their numerical handicap and to instill in them a sense of security and confidence, even though the minorities cannot be per se regarded as weaker sections or underprivileged segments of the society.
Precedent	158.
Precedent	The one billion population of India consists of six main ethnic groups and fifty-two major tribes; six major religions and 6,400 castes and sub- castes; eighteen major languages and 1,600 minor languages and dialects.
RatioOfTheDecision	The essence of secularism in India can best be depicted if a relief map of India is made in mosaic, where the aforesaid one billion people are the small pieces of marble that go into the m aking of a map.
RatioOfTheDecision	Each person, whatever his/her language, caste, religion has his/her individual identity, which has to be preserved, so that when pieced together it goes to form a depiction with the different geographical features of India.
RatioOfTheDecision	These small pieces of marble, in the form of human beings, which may individually be dissimilar to each other, when placed together in a systematic manner, produce the beautiful map of India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Each piece, like a citizen of India, plays an important part in making of the whole.
Precedent	The variations of the colours as well as different shades of the same colour in a map is the result of these small pieces of different shades and colours of marble, but even when one small piece of marble is removed, the whole map of India would be scarred, and the beauty would be lost.
Precedent	159.
Precedent	Each of the people of India has an important place in the formation of the nation.
Precedent	Each piece has to retain its own colour.
Precedent	By itself, it may be an insignificant stone, but when placed in a proper manner, goes int o the making of a full picture of India in all its different colours and hues.
Precedent	160.
Precedent	A citizen of India stands in a similar position.
Precedent	The Constitution recognizes the differences among the people of India, but it gives equal importance to each of them, their differences notwithstanding, for only then can there be a unified secular nation.
Precedent	Recognizing the need for the preservation and retention of different pieces that go into the making of a whole nation, the Constitution, while maintaining, inter alia, the basic principle of equality, contains adequate provisions that ensure the preservation of these different pieces.
Precedent	161.
Precedent	The essence of secularism in India is the recognition and preservation of the different types of people, with diverse languages and different beliefs, and placing them together so as to form a whole and united India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Articles 29 and 30 do not more than seek to preserve the differences that exist, and at the same time, unite the people to form one strong nation.
RatioOfTheDecision	ANSWERS TO ELEVEN QUESTIONS :  Q.1.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is the meaning and content of the expression "minorities" in Article 30 of the Constitution of India?
RatioOfTheDecision	A. Linguistic and religious minorities are covered by the expression "minority" under Article 30 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since reorganisation of the <ORG> in India has been on linguistic lines, therefore, for the purpose of determining the minority the unit will be the <ORG> and note the whole of India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, religious and linguistic minorities, who have been put at par in Article 30 , have to be considered <ORG>-wise.
RatioOfTheDecision	Q.2.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is meant by the expression "religion" in Article 30(1)?
Precedent	Can the followers of a sect or denomination of a particular religion claim protection under Article 30(1) on the basis that they constitute a minority in the <ORG>, even though the followers of that religion are in majority in that <ORG>?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>; it will be dealt with by a regular <ORG>.
Precedent	Q.3(a) What are the indicia for treating an educational institution as a minority edu cational institution?
Precedent	Would an institution be regarded as a minority educational institution because it was established by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority or its being administered by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>; it will be dealt with by a regular <ORG>.
Precedent	Q3(b) To what extent can professional education be treated as a matter coming under minorities rights under Article 30?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	Article 30(1) gives religious and linguistic minorities the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The use of the words "of their choice" indicates that even professional educational institutions would be covered by Article 30.
Precedent	Q.4 Whether the admission of students to minority educational institution, whether aided or unaided, can be regulated by <ORG> or by the <ORG> to which the institution is affiliated?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	Admission of students to unaided minority educational ins titutions, viz., schools and undergraduates colleges where the scope for merit-based selection is practically nil, cannot be regulated by the concerned <ORG> or <ORG>, except for providing the qualifications and minimum conditions of eligibility in the interest of academic standards.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right to admit students being an essential facet of the right to administer educational institutions of their choice, as contemplated under Article 30 of the Constitution, the state government or the university may not be entitled to interfere with that right, so long as the admission to the unaided educational institutions is on a transparent basis and the merit is adequately taken care of.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right to administer, not being absolute, there could be regulatory measures for ensuring educational standards and maintaining excellence thereof, and it is more so in the matter of admissions to professional institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	A minority institution does not cease to be so, the moment grant-in-aid is received by the institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	An  aided minority educational institution, therefore, would be entitled to have the right of admission of students belonging to the minority group and at the same time, would be required to admit a reasonable extent of non-minority students, so that the rights under Article 30(1) are not substantially impaired and further the citizens rights under Article 29(2) are not infringed.
RatioOfTheDecision	What would be a reasonable extent, would vary from the types of institution, the courses of education for which admission is being sought and other factors like educational needs.
RatioOfTheDecision	The concerned <ORG> has to notify the percentage of the non-minority students to be admitted in the light of the above observations.
RatioOfTheDecision	Observance of inter se merit amongst the applicants belonging to the minority group could be ensured.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the case of aided professional institutions, it can also be stipulated that passing of the common entrance test held by the state agency is necessary to seek admission.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards non-minority students who are eligi ble to seek admission for the remaining seats, admission should normally be on the basis of the common entrance test held by the state agency followed by counselling wherever it exists.
Precedent	Q5(a) Whether the minority's rights to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice will include the procedure and method of admission and selection of students?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	A minority institution may have its own procedure and method of admission as well as selection of students, but such a procedure must be fair and transparent, and the selection of students in professional and higher education colleges should be on the basis of merit.
Precedent	The procedure adopted or selection made should not tantamount to mal-administration.
Precedent	Even an unaided minority institution ought not to ignore the merit of the students for admission, while exercising its right to admit students to the colleges aforesaid, as in that event, the institution will fail to achieve excellence.
Precedent	Q5(b) Whether the minority institutions' right of admission  of students and to lay down procedure and method of admission, if any, would be affected in any way by the receipt of <ORG> aid?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	While giving aid to professional institutions, it would be permissible for the authority giving aid to prescribe by-rules or regulations, the conditions on the basis of which admission will be granted to different aided colleges by virtue of merit, coupled with the reservation policy of the state qua non-minority students.
Precedent	The merit may be determined either through a common entrance test conducted by the concerned <ORG> or the <ORG> followed by counselling, or on the basis of an entrance test conducted by individual institutions--the method to be followed is for the university or the government to decide.
Precedent	The authority may also devise other means to ensure that admission is granted to an aided professional institution on the basis of merit.
Precedent	In the case of such institutions, it will be permissible for the government or the university to provide that consideration should  be shown to the weaker sections of the society.
Precedent	Q5(c) Whether the statutory provisions which regulate the facets of administration like control over educational agencies, control over governing bodies, conditions of affiliation including recognition/withdrawal thereof, and appointment of staff, employees, teachers and Principal including their service conditions and regulation of fees, etc.
Precedent	would interfere with the right of administration of minorities?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	So far as the statutory provisions regulating the facets of administration are concerned, in case of an unaided minority educational institution, the regulatory measure of control should be minimal and the conditions of recognition as well as the conditions of affiliation to an university or board have to be complied with, but in the mater of day-to- day management like the appointment of staff, teaching and non-teaching, and administrative control over them, the management should have the freedom and there should not be any external controlling agency.
Precedent	<NAME> wever, a rational procedure for the selection of teaching staff and for taking disciplinary action has to be evolved by the management itself.
Precedent	For redressing the grievances of employees of aided and unaided institutions who are subjected to punishment or termination from service, a mechanism will have to be evolved, and in our opinion, appropriate tribunals could be constituted, and till then, such tribunals could be presided over by a Judicial Officer of the rank of District Judge.
Precedent	The <ORG> or other controlling authorities, however, can always prescribe the minimum qualification, experience and other conditions bearing on the merit of an individual for being appointed as a teacher or a principal of any educational institution.
Precedent	Regulations can be framed governing service conditions for teaching and other staff for whom aid is provided by the state, without interfering with the overall administrative control of the management over the staff.
Precedent	Fees to be charged by unaided institutions cannot be regulated but  no institution should charge capitation fee.
Precedent	Q6(a) Where can a minority institution be operationally located?
Precedent	Where a religious or linguistic minority in <ORG> 'A" establishes an educational institution in the said <ORG>, can such educational institution grant preferential admission/reservations and other benefits to members of the religious/linguistic group from other <ORG>s where they are non-minorities?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>; it will be dealt with by a regular <ORG>.
Precedent	Q6(b) Whether it would be correct to say that only the members of that minority residing in <ORG> 'A' will be treated as the members of the minority vis--vis such institution?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>; it will be dealt with by a regular <ORG>.
Precedent	Q.7 Whether the member of a linguistic non-minority in one <ORG> can establish a trust/society in another <ORG> and claim minority status in that <ORG>?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>; it will be dealt with by a regular B ench.
Precedent	Q.8 Whether the ratio laid down by this <ORG> in the <ORG> case ( <ORG> <CITATION_13862901> is correct?
Precedent	If no, what order?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	The basic ratio laid down by this <ORG> in the <ORG> College case is correct, as indicated in this judgment.
Precedent	However, rigid percentage cannot be stipulated.
Precedent	It has to be left to authorities to prescribe a reasonable percentage having regard to the type of institution, population and educational needs of minorities.
Precedent	Q.9 Whether the decision of this <ORG> in <CITATION_1775396> .
Precedent	(except where it holds that primary education is a fundamental right) and the scheme framed thereunder required reconsideration/modification and if yes, what?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	The scheme framed by this <ORG> in <NAME> case case and the directio to impose the same, except where it holds that primary education is fundamental right, is unconstitutional.
Precedent	However, the principle that the should not be capitation fee or profiteering is correct.
Precedent	Reasonable surplus to meet cost of expansion and  augmentation of facilities does not, however, amount to profiteering.
Precedent	Q.10 Whether the non-minorities have the right to establish and administer educational institution under Article 21 and 29(1) read with Articles 14 and 15(1), in the same manner and to the same extent as minority institutions?
Precedent	And Q.11 What is the meaning of the expressions "Education" and "Educational Institutions" in various provisions of the Constitution?
Precedent	Is the right to establish and administer educational institutions guaranteed under the Constitution?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	The expression "education" in the Articles of the Constitution means and includes education at all levels from the primary school level upto the post-graduate level.
Precedent	It includes professional education.
Precedent	The expression "educational institutions" means institutions that impart education, where "education" is as understood hereinabove.
Precedent	The right to establish and administer educational institutions is guaranteed under the Constitution to all citizens under Articles 19(1)(g) and 26, to  minorities specifically under Article 30.
Precedent	All citizens have a right to establish and administer educational institutions under Articles 19(1)(g) and 26, but this right is subject to the provisions of Articles 19(6) and 26(a).
Precedent	However, minority institutions will have a right to admit students belonging to the minority group, in the manner as discussed in this judgment.
Precedent	___________________________________________________________________________ <NAME>, J.
Precedent	162.
Precedent	It is interesting to note that <NAME>, one of the members of <ORG> while intervening in the debate in <ORG> with regard to the kind of religious education to be given in governmental aided institution stated thus:  "if the proposed amendment is accepted, the matter has to be taken to <ORG> and eleven worthy Judges have to decide whether the kind of education given is of a particular religion or in the nature of elementary philosophy of comparative religion.
Precedent	Then, after having decided that, th e second point which the learned Judges will have to direct their attention to will be whether this elementary philosophy is calculated to broaden the minds of the pupils or to narrow their minds.
Precedent	Then they will have to decide upon the scope of every word, this being a justiciable right which has to be adjudicated upon by them.
Precedent	I have no doubt members of my profession will be very glad to throw considerable light on what is and is not a justiciable right of this nature (A Member: For a fee).
Precedent	Yes, for very good fee too."
Precedent	(See -- <ORG> Official Report.
Precedent	Reprinted by <ORG>)  163.
Precedent	It may be noted that at the time when <ORG> was framing the Constitution of India the strength of Judges of <ORG> was not contemplated as eleven Judges.
Precedent	It appears what <NAME> stated was prophetic or a mere co-incidence.
Precedent	Today eleven Judges of the <ORG> have assembled to decide the question of rights of the minorities.
Precedent	Question No.
Precedent	1.
Precedent	What is the meaning an d content of the expression of "minorities in Article 30 of the Constitution of India?
Precedent	164.
Precedent	The first question that is required to be answered by this <ORG> is who is a minority.
Precedent	The expression "minority" has been derived from the Latin word "minor" and the suffix "ity" which means "small in number".
Precedent	According tot <ORG> 'minorities' means "groups held together by ties of common descent, language or religious faith and feeling different in these respects from the majority of the inhabitants of a given political entity".
Precedent	<NAME> in his book "The Protection to Minority" describes 'Minority' as a group of persons having different race, language or religion from that of majority of inhabitants.
Precedent	In the Year Book on Human Rights U.N.
Precedent	Publication 1950 ed.
Precedent	minority has been described as non dominant groups having different religion or linguistic traditions than the majority population.
Precedent	165.
Precedent	The expression minority has not been defined in the Constitution.
Precedent	As a matter of fact when Constitution  was being drafted <NAME> one of the members of <ORG> proposed an amendment which runs as under:  "That in Part XVI of the Constitution, for the word "minorities" where it occurs, the word "certain classes" be substitued."
Precedent	166.
Precedent	We find that expression `minorities' has been employed only at four places in the Constitution of India.
Precedent	Head note of Article 29 uses the word minorities.
Precedent	Then again the expressions Minorities or minority have been employed in head note of Article 30 and sub clauses (1) and (2) of Article  30.
Precedent	However, omission to define minorities in the Constitution does not mean that the employment of words `minorities' or `minority' in Article 30 is of less significance.
Precedent	At this stage it may be noted that the expression `minorities' has been used in Article 30 in two senses - one based on religion and other on basis of language.
Precedent	However prior to coming into force of the Constitution the expression minority was understood in terms of a class based on religion h aving different electorates.
Precedent	When India attained freedom, the framers of the Constitution threw away the idea of having separate electorates based on religion and decided to have a system of joint electorates so that every candidate in an election would have to seek support of all sections of the constituency.
Precedent	In turn special safeguards were provided to minorities and they were made part of Chapter III of the Constitution with a view to instill a sense of confidence and security to the minorities.
Precedent	167.
Precedent	But the question arises what is the test to determine minority status based on religion or language of a group of persons residing in a State or Union Territory.
Precedent	Whether minority status of a given group of persons has to be determined in relation to the population of the whole of India or population of the State where the said group of persons is residing.
Precedent	When the Constitution of India was being framed it was decided that India would be Union of States and Constitution to be adopted would be of federal charac ter.
Precedent	India is a country where many ethnic or religious and multi language people reside.
Precedent	<NAME> one of the members of <ORG> in his <ORG>) referred to minorities as national minorities.
Precedent	The said draft Article VI (3) runs as under:  "(3) Citizens belonging to national minorities in a State whether based on religion or language have equal rights with other citizens in forming controlling and administering at their own expense; charitable, religious and social institutions, schools and other educational establishments with the free use of their language and practice of their religions."
Precedent	168.
Precedent	Dr. <NAME> while intervening in debate in regard to amendment to draft Article 23 which related to the rights of religious and linguistic minorities stated that "the term `minority' was used therein not in the technical sense of the word minority as we have been accustomed to use it for purposes of certain political safeguards, such a s representation in the legislature, representation in the services and so on".
Precedent	According to him, the word minority is used not merely to indicate, the minority in technical sense of the word, it is also used to cover minorities which are not minorities in the technical sense but which are nonetheless minorities in the cultural and linguistic sense.
Precedent	Dr. <NAME> cited following example which runs as under:  "For instance, for the purposes of this Article 23 , if a certain number of people from Madras came and settled in Bombay for certain purposes, they would be, although not a minority in the technical sense, cultural minorities.
Precedent	Similarly, if a certain number of Maharashtrians went from Maharashtra and settled in Bengal, although they may not be minorities in technical true sense, they would be cultural and linguistic minorities in Bengal.
Precedent	The Article intends to give protection in the matter of culture, language and script not only to a minority technically, but also to a minority in the wider sense of the  term as I have explained just now.
Precedent	That is the reason why we dropped the word minority because we felt that the word might be interpreted in the narrow sense of the term when the intention of this <ORG>, when it passed Article 18 , was to use the word "minority" in a much wider sense, so as to give cultural protection to those who were technically not minorities but minorities nonetheless."
Precedent	(See Constitutional Assembly Debates Official Report reprinted by <ORG>)  169.
Precedent	The draft article and <ORG> in unambiguous terms show that minority status of a group of persons has to be determined on the basis of population of a <ORG> or Union Territory.
Precedent	170.
Precedent	Further a perusal of Articles 350A and 350B which were inserted by the Constitution (7th Amendment) Act 1956 indicates that the status of linguistic minorities has to be determined as state-wise linguistic minorities/groups.
Precedent	Thus the intention of the framers of the Constitution and subsequent amendments in the Constitution  indicate that protection was conferred not only to religious minorities but also to linguistic minorities on basis of their number in a State (unit) where they intend to establish an institution of their choice.
Precedent	It was not contemplated that status of linguistic minority has to be judged on basis of population of the entire country.
Precedent	If the status of linguistic minorities has to be determined on basis of the population of the country, the benefit of Article 30 has to be extended to those who are in majority in their own States.
Precedent	171.
Precedent	The question who are minorities arose for the first time in the case of <ORG> case 1959 SCR P.995 at 1047-50.
Precedent	In the said decision it was contended by the <ORG> that in order to constitute a minority who may claim protection of Article 30(1) persons or group of persons must numerically be minority in the particular region in which the educational institution in question is or is intended to be situated.
Precedent	Further according to <ORG>, Anglo-Indians o r Christians or Muslims of that locality taken as a unit, will not be a minority within the meaning of the Article and will not, therefore, be entitled to establish and maintain educational institutions of their choice in that locality, but if some of the members belonging to the Anglo Indian or Christians community happen to reside in another ward of the same municipality and their number be less than that of the members of other communities residing there, then those numbers of Anglo-Indian or Christians community will be a minority within the meaning of Article 30 and will be entitled to establish and maintain educational institution of their choice in that locality.
Precedent	Repelling the argument this Court held thus:-  "We need not however, on this occasion go further into the matter and enter upon a discussion and express a final opinion as to whether education being a State subject being item 11 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution subject only to the provisions of entries 62, 63, 64 and 66 o f List land entry 25 of List 111, the existence of a minority community should in all circumstances and for purposes of all laws of that State be determined on the basis of the population of the whole State or whether it should be determined on the State basis only when the validity of a law extending to the whole State is in question or whether it should be determined on the basis of the population of a particular locality when the law under attack applies only to that locality, for the Bill before us extends to the whole of the State of Kerala and consequently the minority must be determined by reference to the entire population of that State.
Precedent	By this test Christians, Muslims and Anglo-Indians will certainly be minorities in the State of Kerala."
Precedent	172.
Precedent	<CITATION_1393122> it was held as this: "6.
Precedent	The contention of the petitioners is that they have an exclusive right to administer the institution under Article 30(1) of the Constitution and that the order of <ORG> constitutes viola tion of that right.
Precedent	Clause (1) of Article 30 provides that all minorities, whether based on religion of language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice; and clause (2) that the <ORG> shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions, discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language.
Precedent	The word "minority" is not defined in the Constitution; and in the absence of any special definition we must hold that any community, religious or linguistic, which is numerically less than fifty per cent of the population of the <ORG> is entitled to the fundamental right guaranteed by the article."
Precedent	173.
Precedent	The view that in a state where a group of persons having distinct language is numerically less than fifty per cent of population of that state are to be treated as linguistic minority was accepted by <ORG> and implemented while determining the minority status  of persons or group of persons and the same is evident from the views expressed by <ORG> before the Special Rapporteur of <ORG>, when he was collecting information relating to the study on the concept of Minority and cope of the ICCPR 1966.
Precedent	174.
Precedent	The Special Rapporteur in his report "Study on the Rights of Persons Belonging to Ethnic Religious and Linguistic Minorities" published by <ORG>.
Precedent	Geneva states on the interpretation of the term "Minority" as thus:  "For the purposes of the study, an ethnic, religious or linguistic minority is a group numerically smaller than the rest of the population of the State to which it belongs and possessing cultural, physical or historical characteristics, a religion or a language different from those of the rest of the population."
Precedent	175.
Precedent	In the said report, views of the <ORG> which was based on decision of <ORG> in the case of <NAME> atroni was referred to which runs as under:  "(39) In India, <ORG>, after observing that the Constitution granted specific rights to minorities, declared that "in the absence of any special definition we must hold that any community religious or linguistic, which is numerically less than 50% of the population of the State is entitled to the rights guaranteed by the Constitution".
Precedent	176.
Precedent	However in the case of <CITATION_1596466> 1971 Suppl.
Precedent	S.C.R.
Precedent	p.688 at 697, an argument was raised that minority status of a person or group of persons either religious or linguistic is to be determined by taking into consideration the entire population of the country.
Precedent	While dealing with the said argument this <ORG> held as follow: "Though, there was a faint attempt to canvas the position that religious or linguistic minorities should be minorities in relation to the entire population of the country, in our view they are to be determined only in relation to the particular legislation which is sought to be impugne d, namely that if it is the <ORG> legislature these minorities have to be determined in relation to the population of the <ORG>".
Precedent	177.
Precedent	It may be noted that in the case of <ORG> (supra), this <ORG> was dealing with the <ORG> legislation and in that context observed that if it is the state legislation, minority status has to be determined in relation to the population of the <ORG>.
Precedent	However, curiously enough, there is no discussion that if the particular legislation sought to be impugned is a central legislation, minority status has to be tested in relation to the population of the whole of the country.
Precedent	In the absence of any such discussion it cannot be inferred that if there is a central legislation, the minority status of a group of persons has to be determined in relation to the entire population of the country.
Precedent	178.
Precedent	In the year 1976 by Fourty-Second Amendment Act, the Entries 11 and 25 of List II of Seventh Schedule relating to Education and Vocational and Technical Training Labour respectively wer e transferred to the Concurrent List as Entry No.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	In the Constitution of India as enacted Entries 11 and 25 of List II were as under:  Entry 11 "Education including Universities subject to the provisions of Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I and Entry 25 of List III".
Precedent	Entry 25 "Vocational or Technical training of labour".
Precedent	179.
Precedent	By the Constitution (42nd Amendment) Act , 1976 Entry 25 of List III was substituted by the following entry viz:  Entry 25 "Education including technical education, medical education and universities subject to the provisions of Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I; vocational and technical training of Labour".
Precedent	And Entry 11 of List II was omitted.
Precedent	180.
Precedent	On 6.2.1997 when these matters came up before a <ORG> of seven Judges of this court, the <ORG> passed an order which runs as under: "In view of the 42nd Amendment to the Constitution placing with effect from 3.1.1977 the subject "Education in Entry 25 List III of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution and the quoted decisions of the  Larger Benches of this <ORG> being of the pre amendment era, the answer to the brooding question, as to who in the context constitutes a minority, has become one of the utmost significance and therefore, it is appropriate that these matters are placed before a Bench of at least 11 Hon'ble Judges for determining the questions involved".
Precedent	181.
Precedent	It is for the aforesaid reasons this question has been placed before this Bench.
Precedent	182.
Precedent	In view of the referring order the question that arises for consideration is whether the transposition of the subject Education from List II to List III has brought change to the test determining who are minorities for the purposes of Article 30 of the Constitution.
Precedent	183.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be remembered that various entries in three lists of the Seventh Schedule are not powers of legislation but field of legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	These entries are mere legislative heads and demarcate the area over which the appropriate legislatures are empowered to enact law.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power to legislate is given to the appropriate  legislature by Article 246 and other articles.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 245 provides that subject to the provisions of the Constitution, <ORG> may make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India and the legislature of a <ORG> may make laws for whole or any part of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under Article 246 <ORG> has exclusive power to make law with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further under clause (2) of Article 246 <ORG> and subject to clause (1) the legislature of any <ORG> are empowered to make law with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III Seventh Schedule and under clause (3) of Article 246 , the legislature of any <ORG> is empowered to enact law with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule subject to clauses (1) and (2).
RatioOfTheDecision	From the aforesaid provisions it is clear that it is Article 246 and other Articles which either empower <ORG> or <ORG> Legislature to enact law and not the Entries finding place in thr ee Lists of Seventh Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus the function of entries in three lists of the Seventh Schedule is to demarcate the area over which the appropriate legislatures can enact laws but do not confer power either on <ORG> or <ORG> <ORG>s to enact laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be remembered, by transfer of Entries, the character of entries is not lost or destroyed.
Precedent	In this view of the matter by transfer of contents of entry 11 of List II to List III as entry 25 has not denuded the power of <ORG> <ORG> to enact law on the subject `Education' but has also conferred power on <ORG> to enact law on the subject "Education".
Precedent	Article 30 confers fundamental right to linguistic and religious minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The test who are linguistic or religious minorities within the meaning of Article 30 would be one and the same either in relation to a <ORG> legislation or Central legislation.
Precedent	There cannot be two tests one in relation to Central legislation and other  in relation to <ORG> legislation.
Precedent	Therefore, the meaning assigned to linguistic or religious minorities would not be different when the subject "Education" has been transferred to the Concurrent List from the <ORG> List.
Precedent	The test who are linguistic or religious minorities as settled in Kerala Education Bill's case continues to hold good even after the subject "Education" was transposed into Entry 25 List III of Seventh Schedule by the 42nd Amendment Act .
Precedent	If we give different meaning to the expression "minority" occurring in Article 30 in relation to a central legislation, the very purpose for which protection has been given to minority would disappear.
Precedent	The matter can be examined from another angle.
Precedent	It is not disputed that there can be only one test for determining minority status of either linguistic or religious minority.
Precedent	It is, therefore, not permissible to argue that the test to determine the status of linguistic minority would be different than the religious minorities.
Precedent	If it is not so, each linguistic S <ORG> would claim protection of Article 30 in its own S<ORG> in relation to a central legislation which was not the intention of framers of the Constitution nor the same is borne out from language of Article 30.
Precedent	I am, therefore, of the view that the test for determining who are the minority, either linguistic or religious, has to be determined independently of which is the law, <ORG> or S<ORG>.
Precedent	184.
Precedent	In view of what has been s<ORG>d above, my conclusion on the question who are minorities either religious or linguistic within the meaning of Article 30 is as follows:  The person or persons establishing an educational institution who belong to either religious or linguistic group who are less than fifty per cent of total population of the s<ORG> in which educational institutional is established would be linguistic or religious minorities.
Fact	Conflict between ARTICLE 29(2) AND ARTICLE 30(1) - whether Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2).
Fact	What are the contents of Article 30(1)?
Precedent	185.
Precedent	The issue in hand is full of c omplexities and an answer is not simple.
Precedent	Under Article 30(1 ), linguistic or religious minorities' fundamental rights to establish and administer educational institution of their choice have been protected.
Precedent	Such institutions are of three categories.
Precedent	First category of institutions are the institutions which neither take government aid nor are recognised by the <ORG> or by the <ORG>.
Precedent	Second category of institutions are those which do not take financial assistance from the government but seek recognition either from the <ORG> or the <ORG> or bodies recognised by the government for that purpose and the third category of institutions which seek both government aid as well as recognition from the <ORG> or the <ORG>.
Precedent	186.
Precedent	Here, I am concerned with the third category of minority institutions and my answer to the question is confined to the said category of minority educational institutions.
Precedent	187.
Precedent	It is urged on behalf of the minority institutions that Article 30(1) confers an absolute right on linguis tic or religious minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	According to them, the expression `choice' indicates that one of the purposes of establishing educational institutions is to give secular education to the children of minority communities and, therefore, such institutions are not precluded from denying admission to members of non- minority communities on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	In nutshell, the argument is that Article 30(1) is not subject to Article 29(2).
Precedent	Whereas, the argument of learned Solicitor General and other learned counsel is that any minority institution receiving government aid is bound by the mandate of Article 29(2) and such a minority institution cannot discriminate between the minority and majority while admitting students in such institutions.
Precedent	According to them, Article 30(1) does not confer an absolute right on the institutions set up by the linguistic or religious minorities receiving government aid and s uch institutions cannot extend preference to the members of their own community in the matter of admission of students in the institutions.
Precedent	188.
Precedent	The question, therefore, arises whether minority institutions receiving government aid are subject to provisions of Article 29(2).
Precedent	189.
Precedent	Learned counsel for the parties has pressed into service various rules of constructions for interpreting Article 29(2) and Article 30(1) in their own way.
Precedent	No doubt, various rules of construction laid down by the courts have been of considerable assistance as they are based on human experience.
Precedent	The precedents show that by taking assistance from rule of interpretations, the courts have solved many problems.
Precedent	We, therefore, propose to take assistance of judicial decisions as well as settled rules of interpretation while interpreting Articles 29(2) and 30(1) of the Constitution.
Precedent	190.
Precedent	After the Constitution of India came into force, Articles 29 and 30 came up for interpretation before various <ORG> and <ORG>.
Precedent	There appea rs to be no unanimity amongst the judicial decisions rendered by the courts as regards the extent of right conferred by Article 30(1).
Precedent	One line of decisions is that minority institutions receiving government aid are bound by constitutional mandate enshrined in article 29(2).
Precedent	The second line of decisions is that minority institutions receiving government aid while admitting students from their own communities in the institutions established by them are free to admit students from other communities -- belonging to majority, and such admission of students in the institution do not destroy the minority character of the institution.
Precedent	The third line of decisions is that under Article 30(1) fundamental right declared in terms is absolute although it was not decided whether Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2) or not.
Precedent	However, the view in the said decisions is that the right conferred under Article 30(1) is an absolute right.
Precedent	The fourth line of decision is that there can be no communal reservation for admission i n Govt.
Precedent	or government aided institutions.
Precedent	The aforesaid categories of decisions shall hereinafter be referred to as first, second, third and fourth category of decisions.
Precedent	191.
Precedent	The first decision in first category of decisions of this <ORG> is <CITATION_1964375> this case, a Society consisting of members of Anglo-Indian community whose mother tongue was English set up an institution in the then State of Bombay.
Precedent	The State of Bombay in the year 1955 issued an Order that no school shall admit to class where English is used as a medium of instruction any pupil other than a pupil belonging to a section of citizens the language of which is English namely, Anglo-Indians and citizens of non- Asiatic descent.
Precedent	One of the members of the Christian community sought admission in the school on the premise that his mother tongue was English.
Precedent	He was refused admission in view of the aforesaid Government Order, as the student was neither an Anglo-Indian whose mother tongue was English nor a citizen of non-Asiatic descent.
Precedent	This  was challenged by means of a petition under Article 226 before <ORG> and the <ORG>.
Precedent	order was struck down.
Precedent	On appeal to <ORG>, this <ORG> held thus:  " Article 29(1) gives protection to any section of the citizens having a distinct language, script or culture by guaranteeing their right to conserve the same.
Precedent	Article 30(1) secures to all minorities whether based on religion or language, the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	Now, suppose the <ORG> maintains an educational institution to help conserving the distinct language, script or culture of a section of the citizens or makes grants-in-aid of an educational institution established by a minority community based on religion or language to conserve their distinct language, script or culture who can claim the protection of Article 29(2) in the matter of admission into any such institution.?
Precedent	Surely, the citizens of the very section whose language, script or culture is sought to be conserved by the  institution or the citizen who belonged to the minority group which has established and is administering the institution, do not need any protection against themselves and therefore, Article 29(2) is not designed for the protection of this section or this minority.
Precedent	Nor do we see any reason to limit article 29(2) to citizens belonging to a minority group other than the section or the minorities referred to in article 29(1) or article 30(1 ), for the citizens, who do not belong to any minority group, may quite conceivably need this protection just as much as the citizens of such other minority groups.
Precedent	If it is urged that the citizens of the majority group are amply protected by article 15 and do not require the protection of article 29(2 ), then there are several obvious answers to that argument.
Precedent	The language of article 29(2) is wide and unqualified and may well cover all citizens whether they belong to the majority or minority group.
Precedent	Article 15 protects all citizens against the <ORG> whereas the protection of  article 29(2) extents against the <ORG> or any body who denies the right conferred by it.
Precedent	Further article 15 protects all citizens against discrimination generally, but article 29(2) is a protection against a particular species of wrong namely denial of admission into educational institutions of the specified kind.
Precedent	In the next place article 15 is quite general and wide in its terms and applies to all citizens, whether they belong to the majority or minority groups, and gives protection to all the citizens against discrimination by the <ORG> on certain specific grounds.
Precedent	Article 29(2) confers a special right on citizens for admission into educational institutions maintained or aided by the <ORG>.
Precedent	To limit this right only to citizens belonging to minority groups will be to provide a double protection for such citizens and to hold that the citizens of the majority group have no special educational rights in the nature of a right to be admitted into an educational institution for the maintenance of which they mak e contributions by way of taxes.
Precedent	We see no cogent reason for such discrimination.
Precedent	(emphasis supplied)  192.
Precedent	In Re Kerala Education Bill, 1957 - 1959 SCR 995, it was held thus: "Under clause (1) of Article 29 any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own has the right to conserve the same.
Precedent	It is obvious that a minority community can effectively conserve its language, script or culture by and through educational institutions and, therefore, the right to establish and maintain educational institutions of its choice is a necessary concomitant to the right to conserve its distinctive language, script or culture and that is what is conferred on all minorities by Article 30(1) which has hereinbefore been quoted in full.
Precedent	This right however, is subject to clause 2 of Article 29 which provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds  on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them."
Precedent	(emphasis supplied)  193.
Precedent	After holding that Article 30(1) is subject to clause (2) of Article 29 , this <ORG> further held thus:  "There is no such limitation in Article 30(1) and to accept this limitation will necessarily involve the addition of the words "for their own community" in the Article which is ordinarily not permissible according to well established rules of interpretation.
Precedent	Nor is it reasonable to assume that the purpose of Article 29(2) was to deprive minority educational institutions of the aid they receive from the <ORG>.
Precedent	To say that an institution which receives aid on account of its being a minority educational institution must not refuse to admit any member of any other community only on the grounds therein mentioned and then to say that as soon as such institution admits such an outsider it will cease to be a minority institution is tantamount to saying that minority institutions will not, as minority institutions, be en titled to any aid.
Precedent	The real import of Article 29(2) and Article 30(1) seems to us to be that they clearly contemplate a minority institution with a sprinkling of outsiders admitted into it.
Precedent	By admitting a non- member into it the minority institution does not shed its character and cease to be a minority institution."
Precedent	(emphasis supplied)  194.
Precedent	In <ORG> v. <ORG> 1971 (suppl.)
Precedent	S.C.R.
Precedent	p.688 it was held thus:  "A reading of these two Articles together would lead us to conclude that a religious or linguistic minority has a right to establish and administer educational institutions of its choice for effectively conserving its distinctive language, script or culture, which right however is subject to the regulatory power of the <ORG> for maintaining and facilitating the excellence of its standards.
Precedent	This right is further subject to clause (2) of Article 29 which provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution which is maintained by the <ORG> or receives a id out of <ORG> funds.
Precedent	on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	While this is so these two articles are not inter-linked nor does it permit of their being always read together."
Precedent	195.
Precedent	In <ORG> v. <ORG>, <NAME> speaking for the majority held that Article 29(2) applies to minority as well as non-minority institutions.
Precedent	196.
Precedent	From the decisions referred to above, the principles that emerge are these:  (1) Article 29(2) confers right on the citizens for admission into educational institution maintained or aided by the <ORG> without discrimination.
Precedent	To limit this right only to citizens belonging to minority group will be to provide double protection for such citizens and to hold that citizens of the majority group have no special educational rights in the nature of a right to be admitted into an educational institution for maintenance of which they make contribution by way of taxes.
Precedent	There is no reason for such discrimination;  (2) Article 30(1) is subject to  Article 29(2); and (3) the real import of Articles 29(2) and 30(1) is that they clearly contemplate minority institutions with the sprinkling of the outsiders admitted into it and by admitting the non- minority into it, the minority institutions do not shed its character and cease to be minority institutions.
Precedent	197.
Precedent	The first decision in the second category of cases is in Fev.
Precedent	<CITATION_833521> was held therein that the right of minority to establish educational institutions of their choice under Article 30(1) is not so limited as not to admit members of other communities.
Precedent	Such minority institutions while admitting members from their own community are free to admit members of non-minority communities.
Precedent	The expression `choice' includes to admit members from other communities.
Precedent	In <ORG> etc.
Precedent	v. Very Rev.
Precedent	Mother Provincial etc.
Precedent	- 1971(1) SCR 734, it was held that it is permissible that a minority institution while admitting students from its community may also admit students from majority community.
Precedent	Admission of such non- minority students would bring income and the institution need not be turned away to enjoy the protection.
Precedent	198.
Precedent	The legal principle that emerges from the aforesaid decisions is that a minority institution while admitting members from its own community is free to admit students from non-minority community also.
Precedent	199.
Precedent	The first decision in the third category of cases is <CITATION_751632> the said decision.
Precedent	although the question as to whether Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2) was not considered, yet it was held that under Article 30(1) fundamental right declared in terms absolute.
Precedent	It was also held that unlike fundamental freedoms guaranteed under Article 19 it is not subject to reasonable restrictions.
Precedent	It is intended to be a real right for the protection of minorities in the matter of setting up of educational institutions of their own choice.
Precedent	The right is intended to be effective and not to be whittled down by so-called regulatory measures conceived in the interest not of the mino rity educational institution, but of the public or the nation as a whole.
Precedent	200.
Precedent	In Rt.
Precedent	Rev.
Precedent	Magr.
Precedent	<CITATION_1509783> ., a question arose whether Regional Deputy Director of Public Instructions can refuse permission to a minority institution to admit girl students.
Precedent	This <ORG> while held that refusal to grant permission was violative of Article 30(1).
Precedent	201.
Precedent	The legal principles that emerges from the aforesaid category of decisions are these:  (1) that article 30(1) is absolute in terms and the said right cannot be whittled by down regulatory measures conceived in the interest not of minority institutions but of public or the nation as a whole; and (2) the power of refusal to admit a girl student in a boy's minority institution is violative of Article 30(1).
Precedent	202.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fourth category of cases is the decision in the <CITATION_149321> etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	1951 SCR 525 wherein it was held thus: "This <ORG> in the context of communal reservation of seats in medical colleges run by the government was of the view that the intention  of the Constitution was not to introduce communal consideration in matters of admission into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, it may be noted that this case was in relation to an institution referred to in Article 30(1) but has been cited for the purpose that there cannot be communal reservation in the educational institution receiving aid out of <ORG> funds."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  203.
RatioOfTheDecision	From the aforesaid four categories of decisions, it appears that there is not a single decision of this <ORG> where it has been held that Article 30(1) is not subject to Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	On the contrary there are bulk of decisions of this <ORG> holding that minority institution cannot refuse admission of members of non-minority community and Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	If I go by precedent, it must be held that Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2).
Precedent	However, learned counsel for minority institutions strongly relied upon the decision in the case o f Rev.
Precedent	<NAME> (supra) and argued that once Article 30(1) is fundamental right declared absolute in terms, it cannot be subjected to Article 29(2).
Precedent	Since this Bench is of eleven Judges and decisions of this <ORG> holding that Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2) are by lesser number of Judges I shall examine the question independently.
Precedent	204.
Precedent	One of the known methods to interpret a provision of an enactment of the Constitution is to look into the historical facts or any document preceding the legislation.
Precedent	205.
Precedent	Earlier, to interpret a provision of the enactment or the Constitution on the basis of historical facts or any document preceding the legislation was very much frowned upon, but by passage of time, such injunction has been relaxed.
Precedent	206.
Precedent	In His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru etc.
Precedent	v. State of Kerala & Anr.
Precedent	Etc.
Precedent	, it was held that <ORG> debates although not conclusive, yet the intention of framers of the Constitution in enacting provisions of the Constitution can thr ow light in ascertaining the intention behind such provision.
Precedent	207.
Precedent	<CITATION_1586918> , it was held thus:  "Reports of the <ORG> which preceded the enactment of a legislation, reports of Joint <ORG> <ORG>, report of a commission set up for collecting information leading to the enactment are permissible external aids to construction.
Precedent	If the basic purpose underlying construction of legislation is to ascertain the real intention of the <ORG>, why should the aids which <ORG> availed of such as report of a Special <ORG> preceding the enactment, existing state of Law, the environment necessitating enactment of legislation, and the object sought to be achieved, be denied to <ORG> whose function is primarily to give effect to the real intention of the <ORG> in enacting the legislation.
Precedent	Such denial would deprive the <ORG> of a substantial and illuminating aid to construction.
Precedent	The modern approach has to a considerable extent croded the exclusionary rule even in England."
Precedent	208.
Precedent	Thus, th e accepted view appears to be that the report of the <ORG> debates can legitimately be taken into consideration for construction of the provisions of the Act or the Constitution.
Precedent	In that view of the matter, it is necessary to look into the <ORG> debates which led to enacting Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution.
Precedent	209.
Precedent	The genesis of the provisions of Articles 29 and 30 needs to be looked into in their two historical stages to focus them in their true perspective.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first stage relates to pre-partition deliberations in the <ORG> and <ORG> and the second stage after the partition of the country.
Fact	On 27th of February, 1947, several <ORG> were formed for the purpose of drafting Constitution of India and on the same day, <ORG> appointed a Sub-Committee on minorities with a view to submit its report with regard to the rights of the minorities.
Fact	Before <ORG>-Committee, <NAME> - one of its members wanted certain r ights for minorities being incorporated in the fundamental rights.
Fact	He was advised by <ORG> that the said report regarding rights of minorities may be placed before <ORG>.
Fact	On April 16, 1947, <NAME> circulated a letter to the members of <ORG>-<ORG> on minorities recommending that certain fundamental rights of minorities be incorporated in the Constitution.
Statute	The recommendations contained in the said letter run as under:  "1.
RatioOfTheDecision	All citizens are entitled to the use of their mother tongue and the script thereof and to adopt, study or use any other language and script of his choice.
RatioOfTheDecision	2.
RatioOfTheDecision	Citizens belonging to national minorities in a State whether based on religion or language have equal rights with other citizens in forming, controlling and administering at their own expense, charitable, religious and social institutions, schools and other educational establishment with the free use of their language and practice of their religion.
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  3.
RatioOfTheDecision	Religious instruction shall not be compulsory for a member of a community which does not profess such religion.
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
RatioOfTheDecision	It shall be the duty of every unit to provide in the public educational system in towns and districts in which a considerable proportion of citizens of other than the language of the unit are residents, adequate facilities for ensuring that in the primary schools the instruction shall be given to the children of such citizens through the medium of their own language.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nothing in this clause shall be deemed to prevent the unit from making the teaching of the national language in the variant and script of the choice of the pupil obligatory in the schools.
RatioOfTheDecision	5.
RatioOfTheDecision	No legislation providing state aid for schools shall discriminate against schools under the management of minorities whether based on religion or language.
RatioOfTheDecision	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	(a) Notwithstanding any custom or usage or prescription, all Hindus without any distinction of caste or denomination shall have the right of access to and worship in all public Hindu  temples, choultries, dharmasalas, bathing ghats, and other religious places.
RatioOfTheDecision	(b) Rules of personal purity and conducted prescribed for admission to and worship in these religious places shall in no way discriminate against or impose any disability on any person on the ground that he belongs to impure or inferior caste or menial class.
RatioOfTheDecision	210.
RatioOfTheDecision	One of the reasons for recommendation of the aforesaid rights was the Polish Treaty forming part of Poland's Constitution which was a reaction to an attempt in Europe and elsewhere to prevent minorities from using or studying their own language.
Fact	The aforesaid recommendations were then placed before the Minority Sub<ORG>Committee.
Precedent	The Minority Sub<ORG>Committee submitted its report amongst other subjects on cultural, educational and fundamental rights of minorities which may be incorporated at the appropriate places in the Constitution of India.
Precedent	The recommendations of the said Sub<ORG>Committee were these:  (i) All citizens are entitled to use their mother tongue and the scrip thereof , and to adopt, study or use any other language and script of their choice;  (ii) Minorities in every unit shall be adequately protected in respect of their language and culture, and no government may enact any laws or regulations that may act oppressively or prejudicially in this respect;  (iii) No minority whether of religion, community or language shall be deprived of its rights or discriminated against in regard to the admission into <ORG> educational institutions, nor shall any religious instruction be compulsorily imposed on them;  (iv) All minorities whether of religion, community or language shall be free in any unit to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice and they shall be entitled to <ORG> aid in the same manner and measure as is given to similar <ORG>-aided institutions;  (v) Notwithstanding any custom, law, decree or usage, presumption or terms of dedication, no Hindu on grounds of caste, birth or denomination shall be precluded from entering in educational institution s dedicated or intended for the use of the Hindu community or any section thereof;  (vi) No disqualification shall arise on account of sex in respect of public serve or professions or admission to educational institutions save and except that this shall not prevent the establishment of separate educational institutions for boys and girls."
Precedent	211.
Fact	Initially, <NAME> was of the view that these minority rights should be made to form part of unjusticiable Directive Principles, but on intervention of <NAME> those minority rights were included in the fundamental rights chapter.
Fact	On 22nd April, 1947, the report of <ORG><ORG>Committee was placed before <ORG>.
Fact	<ORG>, inter alia, recommended that Clause 16 which corresponds to Article 28 of the Constitution should be re<ORG>drafted as follows: "All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion subject order, morality or health, and to the other provi sions of this chapter."
Fact	212.
Fact	<ORG> then considered the recommendations of <ORG> and it was resolved to insert the following clauses among the justiciable fundamental rights:  "(1) Minorities in every unit shall be protected in respect of their language script and culture, and no laws or regulations may be enacted that may operate oppressively or prejudicially in this respect; (2) No minority whether based on religion, community or language shall be discriminated against in regard to the admission into <ORG> educational institutions, nor shall any religious instruction be compulsorily imposed on them;  (3)(a) All minorities whether based on religion, community or language shall be free in any unit to establish and administer educational institutions of then choice;  (b) The <ORG> shall not while providing <ORG> aid to schools discriminate against schools under the management of minorities whether based on religion, community or language."
Fact	This became Clause 18.
Fact	213.
Fact	The recomme ndations of <ORG> were then placed before <ORG> which met on 1st May, 1947.
Fact	When Clause 18 was moved by <NAME> for adoption by the <ORG>, several members were of the view that Clause 18 may be referred back to <ORG> for reconsideration in the light of discussion that took place on that day.
Fact	However, <NAME>--another member of <ORG> suggested that only Sub-clause (2) of Clause 18 be referred back to <ORG> for reconsideration.
Fact	Ultimately, the amendment moved by <NAME> was adopted and Sub-clause (2) of Clause 18 was referred back to <ORG> for reconsideration.
Fact	Thereafter Clause 18(1) and Clause 18(3) were accepted without any amendment.
Fact	214.
Fact	<ORG> re-considered Clause 18(2) and recommended that Clause 18(2) be retained after deleting the words "nor shall any religious instruction be compulsorily imposed on them" as the said provision was already cov ered by Clause 16.
Fact	Thus, Sub-clause (2) was placed before the <ORG> on 30th August, 1947 for being adopted along with the recommendation of <ORG>.
Fact	When the matter was taken up Mrs. <NAME> proposed the following amendments that after the word '<ORG>' the words 'and <ORG>-aided' be inserted.
Fact	While proposing the said amendment, Mrs. <NAME> stated thus:  "The purpose of the amendment is that no minority, whether based on community or religion shall be discriminated against in regard to the admission into <ORG>-aided and <ORG> educational institutions.
Fact	Many of the provinces, e.g.
Fact	U.P., have passed resolutions laying down that no educational institution will forbid the entry of any members of any community merely on the ground that they happened to belong to a particular community--even if that institution is maintained by a donor who has specified that that institution should only cater for members of his particular community.
Fact	If that institution seeks <ORG> aid, it must allow members of  other communities to enter into it.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the olden days, in the Anglo-Indian schools (it was laid down that though those schools would be given to Indians.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the latest report adopted by this <ORG> it is laid down at 40 per cent.
RatioOfTheDecision	I suggest Sir, that if this clause is included without the amendment in the Fundamental Rights, it will be a step backward and many provinces who have taken a step forward will have to retrace their steps.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have many institutions conducted by very philanthropic people, who have left large sums of money at their disposal.
RatioOfTheDecision	While we welcome such donations, when a principle has been laid down that, if any institution receives <ORG> aid, it cannot discriminate or refuse admission to members of other communities, then it should be follow.
RatioOfTheDecision	We know, Sir, that many a Province has got provincial feelings.
RatioOfTheDecision	If this provision is included as a fundamental right, I suggest it will be highly detrimental.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Honourable Mover has not told us what was the reason why he specifically excluded <ORG>-ai ded institutions from this clause.
RatioOfTheDecision	If he had explained it, probably the <ORG> would have been convinced.
RatioOfTheDecision	I hop that all the educationist and other members of this <ORG> will support my amendment."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  215.
Fact	The amendment proposed by Mrs. <NAME> was supported by Pandit <NAME> and other members.
Fact	However, on intervention of <NAME>, the following Clause 18(2) as proposed by <ORG> was adopted:  "18(2).
Precedent	No minority whether based on religion, community or language shall be discriminated against in regard to the admission into state educational institutions."
Precedent	216.
Fact	After Clause 18(2) was adopted by <ORG>, the same was referred to <ORG> of which Dr. <NAME> was the Chairman.
Fact	<ORG> while drafting Clause 18 deleted the word 'minority' from Clause 18(1) and the same was substituted by the words 'any section of the citizens".
Fact	However, rest of the clause as adopted by <ORG> y was retained.
Fact	Clause 18(1), (2) and (3)  (a) & (b) were transposed in Article 23 of the Draft Constitution of India.
Fact	Article 23 of the Draft Constitution of India runs as under: Cultural and Educational Rights "23.
Fact	(1) Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script and culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same.
Fact	(2) No minority whether based on religion, community or language shall be discriminated against in regard to the admission of any person belonging to such minority into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG>.
Fact	(3) (a) All minorities whether based on religion, community or language shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Fact	(b) The <ORG> shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions, discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion community or language."
Fact	2 17.
Fact	On 8.12.1948, the aforesaid draft Article 23 was placed before <ORG>.
Fact	When draft Article 23 was taken up for debate, Shri <NAME> stated that for the words "no minority" occurring in Clause 2 of draft Article 23 , the words "no citizen or minority" be substituted.
Fact	He stated thus:  "I want that all citizens should have the right to enter any public educational institution.
Fact	This ought not to be confined to minorities.
Precedent	That is the object with which I have moved this amendment."
Precedent	218.
Precedent	It is at that stage, <NAME> moved amendment No.
Precedent	26 to amendment No.
Precedent	687.
Precedent	According to him, for amendment No.
Precedent	687 of the List of amendment, the following be substituted:  "No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion race, caste, language or any of them."
Precedent	219.
Precedent	He further stated thus:  "Sir, I find there are three points of difference between this amendment and t he provisions of the section which it seeks to amend.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first is to put in the words 'no citizen' for the words 'no minority'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly that not only the institutions which are maintained by the <ORG> will be included in it, but also such institutions as are receiving aid out of state funds.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thirdly, we have, instead of the words "religion, community of language", the words, "religion, race, caste, language or any of them."
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, Sir, it so happens that the words "no minority" seek to differentiate the minority from the majority, whereas you would be pleased to see that in the Chapter the words of the heading are "cultural and educational rights", so that the minority rights as such should not find any place under this Section.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now if we read Clause (2) it would appear as if the minority had been given certain definite rights in this clause, whereas the national interest requires that no majority also should be discriminated again in this matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unfortunately, there is in some matters a tendency that the mi norities as such posses and are given certain special rights which are denied to the majority.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was the habit of our English masters that they wanted to create discriminations of this sort between the minority and the majority.
Fact	Sometimes the minority said they were discriminated against and on the other occasions the majority felt the same thing.
Fact	The amendment brings the majority and the minority on an equal status.
RatioOfTheDecision	In educational matters, I cannot understand, from the national point of view, how any discrimination can be justified in favour of a minority or a majority.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, what this amendment seeks to do is that the majority and the minority are brought on the same level.
RatioOfTheDecision	There will be no discrimination between any member of the minority or majority in so far as admission to educational institutions are concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	So I should say that this is a charter of the liberties for the student-world of the minority and the majority communities equally.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, Sir, the word "community" is sought to be removed  from this provision because "community" has no meaning.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it is a fact that the existence of a community is determined by some common characteristic and all communities are covered by the words religion or language, then "community" as such has no basis.
RatioOfTheDecision	So the word "community" is meaningless and the words substituted are "race or caste".
RatioOfTheDecision	So this provision is so broadened that on the score of caste, race, language or religion no discrimination can be allowed.
Precedent	My submission is that considering the matter from all the standpoints, this amendment is one which should be accepted unanimously by this <ORG>."
Precedent	220.
Precedent	After Dr. <NAME> gave clarification as to why the words "no minority" were deleted and its place "no section of the citizen" were substituted in Clause (1) of Draft Article 23.
Precedent	Amendment as proposed by <NAME> was put to motion and the same was adopted.
Precedent	Thus the word 'minority' was deleted and the same was substituted by the word 'citizen' and for the words "religion, community o r language", the words "religion, race, caste, language or any of them were substituted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, Article 23 was split into two Articles- Article 23 containing Clause (1) and Clause (2) of Article 23 and Sub-clause (a) and (b) of Clause (3) of Article 23 was numbered as Article 23-A.
Fact	Subsequently Articles 23 and 23-A became Articles 29 and 30 respectively.
Fact	Thus, Article 23 , as amended, became part of the Constitution on 9th December, 1948.
RatioOfTheDecision	221.
RatioOfTheDecision	The deliberations of <ORG> show that initially <NAME> recommended that citizens belonging to national minority in the <ORG> whether based on religion or language have equal rights with other citizens in setting up and administering at their own expense charitable, religious and social institutions, schools and other educational establishments with the free use of their language and practice of their religion for being incorporated in the proposed Constitution of India.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was with a view that the members of the majority community who are m ore in number may not at any point of time take away the rights of minorities to establish and administer educational institution of their choice.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was very much clear that there was a clear intention that the rights given to minorities under Article 30(1) were to be exercised by them if the institution established is administered at their own cost and expense.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is for that reason we find that no educational institution either minority or majority has any common law right or fundamental right to receive financial assistance from the government.
RatioOfTheDecision	Non-discriminatory Clause (2) of Article 30 only provides that the <ORG> while giving grant-in-aid to the educational institutions shall not discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language.
RatioOfTheDecision	The subsequent deliberations of <ORG> further shows that there was thinking in the minds of the framers of the Constitution that equality and secularism be give n paramount importance while enacting Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	It is evident that amendment proposed by <NAME> which is now Article 29(2) was a conscious decision taken with due deliberations.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> was of the view that originally Clause (2) of draft Article 23 sought to distinguish the minority from majority, whereas in the chapter the words are 'cultural and educational rights' and as such the words 'minority' ought not to have found place in that Article.
RatioOfTheDecision	The reason for omission of words in Clause (2) of draft Article 23 was that minorities were earlier given certain rights under that clause where national interest required that no member of majority also should be discriminated against in educational matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	It also shows that by the aforesaid amendment discrimination between minority and majority was done away with and the amendment has brought the minority and majority in equal footing.
RatioOfTheDecision	The debate also shows what was originally proposed either in Clause 18(2) or Article 23(2 ).
RatioOfTheDecision	The debate further shows that the post partition stage members of <ORG> intended to broaden the scope of Clause (2) of draft Article 23 and never wanted to confine the rights only to the minorities.
Precedent	The views of the members of <ORG> were that if any institution takes aid from the government for establishing and administering educational institutions it cannot discriminate while admitting students on the ground of religion, race and caste.
Precedent	It may be seen that by accepting the amendment proposed by <NAME> the scope of Article 29(2) was broadened inasmuch as the interest of minority - either religious or linguistic was secured and, therefore, the intention of the framers of the Constitution for enacting Clause (2) of Article 29(2) was that once a minority institution takes government aid, it becomes subject to Clause (2) of Article 29.
Precedent	222.
Precedent	It was then urged that if the intention of the framers of the Constitution was to make Article 30(1) subject to  Article 29(2 ), the appropriate place where it should have found place was Article 30(1) itself rather than in Article 29 and, therefore, Article 29(2) cannot be treated as an exception to Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no merit in the contention.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is earlier noticed that Clause (18) when was placed before <ORG> contained the provisions of Article 29(1)(2) and 30(1)(2) and all were numbered as Clause 18(1) (2) (3)(a) (b).
RatioOfTheDecision	Again when Clause (18) was transposed in draft Article 23 , Article 29(1)(2) and Article 30(1)(2)-- both were together in draft Article 23.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> amendment which was accepted was in relation to Clause (2) of Article 23 which ultimately has become Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	It is for that reason Article 29(2) finds place in Article 29.
RatioOfTheDecision	223.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was also urged that if the framers of the Constitution intended to carve out a exception to Article 30(1 ), they could have used the words "subject to the provisions contained in Article 29(2)" in the beginning of Article 30(1)  or could have used the expression "notwithstanding" in the beginning of Article 29(2) and in absence of such words it cannot be held that Article 29(2) is an exception to Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Reference in this regard was made to Articles 25 and 26 which contained qualifying words.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, the structural argument was based on the absence of qualifying words either in Article 29(2) or 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	This argument based on structure of Articles 29(2) and 30(1) has no merit.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, it overlooks that the intention of the framers of the Constitution was to confer rights consistent with the other members of society and to promote rather than imperil national interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	it may be noted that there is a difference in the language of Articles 25 and 26.
RatioOfTheDecision	The qualifying words of Article 25 are "subject to public order, morality and health and to the other provisions of this part".
RatioOfTheDecision	The opening words of Article 26 are "subject to public order, morality and health".
RatioOfTheDecision	The absence of words "to the other provisions of this part" as occurri ng in Article 25 in Article 26 does not mean that Article 26 is over and above other rights conferred in Part-III of the Constitution.
Precedent	<CITATION_1262157> and <CITATION_1913766> .
Precedent	-, it has been held that Article 26 is subject to Article 25 irrespective of the fact that the words "subject to other provisions of this part" occurring in Article 25 is absent in Article 26.
Precedent	For these reasons, it must be held that even if there are no qualifying expression "subject to other provisions of this part" and "notwithstanding anything" either in Article 30(1) or Article 29(2 ), Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2) of the Constitution.
Precedent	224.
Precedent	There is another factor which shows that Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2).
Precedent	If Article 29(2) is meant for the benefit of minority, there was no sense in using the word 'caste' in Article 29(2).
Precedent	The word 'caste' is unheard of in religious minority communities and, therefore, Article 29(2) was never intended by the framers of the Constitution to confer any exclusive rights t o the minorities.
Precedent	225.
Precedent	Although Article 30(1) strictly may not be subject to reasonable restrictions, it cannot be disputed that Article 30(1) is subject to Article 28(3) and also general laws and the laws made in the interests of national security, public order, morality and the like governing such institutions will have to be necessarily read into Article 30(1).
Precedent	In that view of the matter the decision by this <ORG> in Rev.
Precedent	<NAME> (supra) that under Article 30(1) fundamental right conferred on minorities is in terms absolute is not borne out of that Article.
Precedent	It, therefore, cannot be held that the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 30(1) is absolute in terms.
Precedent	Thus, looking into the precedents, historical fact and <ORG> debates and also interpreting Articles 29(2) and 30(1) contextually and textually, the irrestible conclusion is that Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2) of the Constitution.
Precedent	226.
Precedent	The question then arises for what purpose the celebrated Article 30(1) has been i ncorporated in the Constitution if the linguistic or religious minorities who establish educational institutions cannot admit their own students or are precluded from admitting members of their own communities in their own institution.
Precedent	It is urged that the rights under Article 30(1) conferred on the minorities was in return to minorities for giving up demand for separate electorate system in the country.
Precedent	It is also urged that an assurance was given to the minorities that they would have a fundamental right to establish and administer educational institution of their choice and in case the minority cannot admit their own students or members of their own community it would be breach of the assurance given to the minorities.
Precedent	There is no denial of the fact that in a democracy the rights and interest of minorities have to be protected.
Precedent	In the year 1919, President <NAME> stated that nothing is more likely to disturb the peace of the world than the treatment which might in certain circumstances be meted out to minor ities.
Precedent	Lord <NAME> emphasized that the most certain test by which we judge whether a country is really free is the amount of security enjoyed by minorities.
Precedent	It is also not disputed that in the field of international law in respect of minorities it is an accepted view that the minorities on account of their non dominance are in a vulnerable position in the society and in addition to the guarantee of non<ORG>discrimination available to all the citizens, require special and preferential treatment in their own institutions.
Precedent	The <ORG><ORG><ORG> in its report to <ORG> reported thus:  "Protection of minorities is the protection of non<ORG>dominant groups, which, while wishing in general for equality of treatment with the minority, wish for a measure of differential treatment in order to preserve basic characteristics which they possess and which distinguish them from the majority of the population.
Precedent	The protection applied equally to individuals belonging to such groups and wishing the same protection.
Precedent	I t follows that differential treatment of such groups or of individuals belonging to such groups is justified when it is exercised in the interest of their contentment and the welfare of the community as a whole."
Precedent	(cited in <ORG>)  227.
Precedent	The aforesaid report was accepted by <ORG> in a case relating to minority school in Albania which arose out of the fact that Albania signed a Declaration relating to the position of minorities in the State.
Precedent	Article 4 of the Declaration provided that all Albanian nationals shall be equal before the law and shall enjoy the same civil and political rights without distinction as the race, language or religion.
Precedent	Article 5 further provided that all Albanian nationals who belong to racial, religious or linguistic minorities will enjoy the same treatment and security in law and in fact as other Albanian nationals.
Precedent	In particular they shall have an equal right to maintain, manage and control at their own expense or to establish in the  future charitable, religious and social institutions, schools and other educational establishments with the right to use their own language and to exercise their religion freely therein.
Precedent	Subsequently, the Albanian Constitution was amended and a provision was made for compulsory primary education for the Albanian nationals in <ORG> schools and all private schools were to be closed.
Precedent	The question arose before <ORG> as to whether Albanian Government was right to abolish the private schools run by the Albanian minorities.
Precedent	The Court was of the view that the object of Declaration was to ensure that nationals belonging to the racial, religious or linguistic minorities shall be placed in every respect on a footing of perfect equality with other nationals of the <ORG>.
Precedent	The second was to ensure for the minority elements suitable means for the preservation of their racial peculiarities, their traditions and their national characteristics.
Precedent	These two requirements were indeed closely i nterlocked, for there would be no true equality between a majority and a minority if the latter were deprived of its own institutions and were consequently compelled to renounce that which constitutes the very essence of its being a minority.
Precedent	The <ORG> was of the further view that "there must be equality in fact as well as ostensible legal equality in the sense of the absence of discrimination in the words of the law.
Precedent	Equality in law precludes discrimination of any kind; whereas equality in fact may involve the necessity of different treatment in order to attain a result which establishes an equilibrium between different situations."
Precedent	(<ORG> case (per <NAME>, <NAME>, JJ.)
Precedent	228.
Precedent	Article 27 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 1966 (CCPR) guarantee minority rights in the following terms: "In those States in which ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities exist persons belonging to such minorities shall not be denied the right, in community with the other members of their gro up, to enjoy their own culture to profess and practice their own religions or to use their own language."
Precedent	229.
Precedent	Prof. <NAME> in his celebrated study on the Rights of Persons Belonging to Ethnic, Religious or Linguistic Minorities stated as follows:  " Article 27 of the Covenant must, therefore, be placed in its proper context.
RatioOfTheDecision	To enable the objectives of this article to be achieved, it is essential that <ORG>s should adopt legislative and administrative measures.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is hard to imagine how the culture and language of a group can be conserved without, for example, a special adaptation of the educational system of the country.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right accorded to members of minorities would quite obviously be purely theoretical unless adequate cultural institutions were established.
RatioOfTheDecision	This applies equally in the linguistic field, and even where the religion of a minority is concerned a purely passive attitude on the part of the <ORG> would not answer the purposes of Article 27.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, whatever the country, groups  with sufficient resources to carry out tasks of this magnitude are rare, if not non-existent.
RatioOfTheDecision	Only the effective exercise of the rights set forth in Article 27 can guarantee observance of the principle of the real, and not only formal, equality of persons belonging to minority groups.
RatioOfTheDecision	The implementation of these rights calls for active and sustained intervention by States.
Precedent	A passive attitude on the part of the latter would render such rights inoperative."
Precedent	230.
Precedent	<ORG> functioning under the Optional Protocol of ICCPR in its General Comment adopted by the <ORG> on 06th April, 1994 stated thus:  "The <ORG> points out that Article 27 establishes and recognizes a right, which is conferred on individuals belonging to minority groups and which is distinct from, and additional to, all the other rights which, as individuals in common with everyone else, they are already entitled to enjoy under the Covenant."
Precedent	231.
Precedent	From the aforesaid report it is clear that in certain circumstances rights co nferred to minority groups are distinct from and additional to, all the other rights which as an individuals are entitled to enjoy under the covenant.
Precedent	The political thinkers have recognised the importance of minority rights as well as for ensuring such rights.
Precedent	According to them the rights conferred on linguistic or religious minorities are not in the nature of privilege or concession, but heir entitlement flows from the doctrine of equality, which is the real de facto equality.
Precedent	Equality in law precludes discrimination of any kind, whereas equality in fact may involve the necessity of different treatment in order to attain a result which establishes equilibrium between different situations.
Precedent	Where there is a plurality in a society, the object of law should be not to split the minority group which makes up the society, but to find out political social and legal means of preventing them from falling apart and so destroying the society of which they are members.
Precedent	The attempt should be made to assimilate the minorit ies with majority.
Precedent	It is a matter of common knowledge that in some of the democratic countries where minority rights were not protected, those democracies acquired status of theocratic States.
Precedent	232.
Precedent	In India, the framers of the Constitution of India with a view to instill a sense of confidence and security in the mind of minority have conferred rights to them under the Constitution.
Precedent	One of such rights is embodied in Article 30 of the Constitution.
Precedent	Under Article 30 the minorities either linguistic or religious have right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	However, under the Constitution every citizen is equal before law, either he may belong to minority group or minority community.
Precedent	But right conferred on minority under Article 30(1) would serve no purpose when they cannot admit students of their own community in their own institutions.
Precedent	In order to make Article 30(1) workable and meaningful, such rights must be interpreted in the manner in which they serve the minorities as we ll as the mandate contained in Article 29(2).
Precedent	Thus, where minorities are found to have established and administering their own educational institutions, the doctrine of the real de facto equality has to be applied.
Precedent	The doctrine of the real de facto equality envisages giving a preferential treatment to members of minorities in the matter of admission in their own institutions.
Precedent	On application of doctrine of the real de facto equality in such a situation not only Article 30(1) would be workable and meaningful, but it would also serve the mandate contained in Article 29(2).
Precedent	Thus, while maintaining the rule of non- discrimination envisaged by Article 29(2 ), the minorities should have also right to give preference to the students of their own community in the matter of admission in their own institution.
Precedent	Otherwise, there would be no meaningful purpose of Article 30(1) in the Constitution.
Precedent	True, receipt of <ORG> aid makes it obligatory for educational institution to keep the institution open to non-minority student s without discrimination on the specified grounds.
Precedent	But, to hold that the receipt of <ORG> aid completely disentitles the management of minority educational institutions from admitting students of their community to any extent will be to denude the essence of Article 30 of the Constitution.
Precedent	It is, therefore, necessary that minority be given preferential rights to admit students of their own community in their own institutions in a reasonable measure otherwise there would be no meaningful purpose of Article 30 in the Constitution.
Precedent	233.
Precedent	Article 337 of the Constitution provides that grants or government aid has to be given to <ORG> provided they admit 40% of members from other community.
Precedent	Taking the clue from Article 337 and spirit behind Article 30(1) it appears appropriate that minority educational institutions be given preferential rights in the matter of admission of children of their community in their own institutions while admitting students of non-minorities which, advisedly, may be  upto 50% based on inter se merits of such students.
Precedent	However, it would be subject to assessment of the actual requirement of the minorities the types of the institutions and the course of education for which admission is being sought for and other relevant factors.
Precedent	234.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before concluding the matter, it is necessary to deal with few more aspects which relate to the regulatory measures taken by the government with regard to government aided minority institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that connection, the <ORG> must see that regulatory measures of control of such institutions should be minimum and there should not be interference in the internal or day-to-day working of the management.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, the <ORG> would be justified in enforcing the standard of education in such institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In case of minority professional institutions, it can also be stipulated that passing of common entrance test held by the <ORG> agency is necessary to seek admission.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is for the reason that the products of such professional institutions are not onl y going to serve the minorities but also to majority community.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as the redressal of grievances of staff and teachers of minority institutions are concerned, a mechanism has to be evolved.
RatioOfTheDecision	Past experience shows that setting up a Tribunal for particular class of employees is neither expedient nor conducive to the interest of such employee.
Precedent	In that view of the matter each District Judge which includes the Addl.
Precedent	District Judge of the respective district be designated as <ORG> of the grievances of the employee and staff of such institutions.
Precedent	235.
Precedent	Another question that arises in this connection as to on what grounds the staff and teachers, if aggrieved, can challenge the arbitrary decisions of the management.
Precedent	One of the learned senior counsel suggested that such decisions be tested on the grounds available under the labour laws.
Precedent	However, seeing the nature of the minority institutions the grounds available under labour laws are too wide and it would be appropriate if adverse decisions of the  Management are tested on grounds of breach of principles of natural justice and fair play or any regulation made in that respect.
Precedent	236.
Precedent	Subject to what have been stated above, I concur with the judgment of Hon'ble the Chief Justice.
Precedent	___________________________________________________________________________ <NAME>, J.
Precedent	237.
Precedent	I have perused the majority judgment prepared by Hon'ble the Chief Justice, the concurring opinion of my learned brother, <NAME>, J. and the dissenting opinions given by our learned sister <NAME>, J. and learned brother <NAME>, J.
Precedent	238.
Precedent	Though the questions referred to and re-framed are eleven, the <ORG> deemed it fit not to answer four of them.
Precedent	On the contentions advanced by the learned counsel who argued these cases in regard to the remaining seven questions, the learned Chief Justice has formulated the following five issues which encompass the entire field:  1.
Precedent	IS THERE A FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT TO SET UP EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AND IF SO, UNDER WHICH PROVISION?
Precedent	2.
Precedent	DOES UNNIKRISHNAN'S CASE REQUIRE RE-CONSIDERATION?
Precedent	3.
Precedent	IN CASE OF PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS (UNAIDED AND AIDED), CAN THERE BE GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND, IF SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?
Precedent	4.
Precedent	IN ORDER, TO DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE OF A RELIGIOUS OR LINGUISTIC MINORITY IN RELATION TO ARTICLE 30 , WHAT IS TO BE THE UNIT, THE STATE OR THE COUNTRY AS A WHOLE?
Precedent	5.
Precedent	TO WHAT EXTENT CAN THE RIGHTS OF AIDED PRIVATE MINORITY INSTITUTIONS TO ADMINISTER BE REGULATED?
Precedent	239.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before I advert to these issues, it would be appropriate to record that there was unanimity among the learned counsel appearing for the parties, institutions, States and the learned Solicitor General appearing for <ORG> on two aspects; the first is that all the citizens have the right to establish educational institutions under Article 19(1)(g) and Article 26 of the Constitution and the second is that the judgment of <ORG> of this Court in Unnikrishnan J.P. and Ors., v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors.
RatioOfTheDecision	requires re- consideration, though t here was some debate with regard to the aspects which require re-consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	1.
Precedent	IS THERE A FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT TO SET UP EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AND IF SO, UNDER WHICH PROVISION?
Precedent	240.
Precedent	On this issue I respectfully agree with the view expressed by Hon'ble the Chief Justice speaking for the majority.
Precedent	241.
Precedent	Part III of the Constitution which embodies fundamental rights does not specify such a right vis-a-vis all citizens as such.
Precedent	However, we shall refer to Articles 19, 26 and 30 having a bearing on this issue.
Precedent	242.
Precedent	Article 19 of the Constitution, insofar as it is relevant for the present discussion, is as under:  "19.
Precedent	Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.
Precedent	- (1) All citizens shall have the right -  (a) to (f) xxx xxx xxx  (g) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.
Precedent	(2) to (5) xxx xxx xxx (6) Nothing in Sub-clause (g) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law insofar as it imposes, or prevent the <ORG> from making any law i mposing, in the interests of the general public, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause, and, in particular, nothing in the said sub-clause shall affect the operation of any existing law insofar as it relates to, or prevent the <ORG> from making any law relating to,--  (i) the professional or technical qualifications necessary for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business, or  (ii) the carrying on by the <ORG>, or by a <ORG> owned or controlled by the <ORG>, of any trade, business, industry or service, whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise."
Precedent	243.
Precedent	Article 19 confers on all citizens rights specified in Sub-clauses (a) to (g).
Precedent	The fundamental rights enshrined in Sub-clause (g) of Clause (1) of Article 19 of the Constitution are to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.
Precedent	We are concerned here with the right to establish educational institution to impart educat ion at different levels, primary, secondary, higher, technical, professional, etc.
Precedent	Education is essentially a charitable object and imparting education is, in my view, a kind of service to the community, therefore, it cannot be brought under 'trade or business' nor can it fall under 'profession'.
Precedent	Nevertheless, having regard to the width of the meaning of the terms 'occupation' elucidated in the judgment of Hon'ble the Chief Justice, the service which a citizen desires to render by establishing educational institutions can be read in 'occupation'.
Statute	This right, like other rights enumerated in Sub- clause (g), is controlled by Clause (6) of Article 19.
Statute	The mandate of Clause (6) is that nothing is Sub-clause (g) shall affect the operation of any existing law, insofar it imposes or prevent the <ORG> from making any law imposing, in the interests of general public, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of right conferred by the said sub-clause and, in particular, nothing in the said sub-clause shall affect the ope ration of any existing law insofar as it relates to or prevent the <ORG> from making nay law relating to: (i) the professional or technical qualifications necessary for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business; or (ii) the carrying on by the <ORG>, or by a <ORG> owned or controlled by the <ORG>, of any trade, business, industry or service, whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise.
Precedent	Therefore, it may be concluded that the right of a citizen to run educational institutions can be read into "occupation" falling in Sub-clause (g) of Clause (1) of Article 19 which would be subject to the discipline of Clause (6) thereof.
Precedent	244.
Precedent	Every religious denomination or a section thereof is conferred the right, inter alia, to establish and maintain institution for religious and charitable purpose, incorporated in Clause (a) of Article 26 , which reads thus:  "26.
Precedent	Freedom to manage religious affairs - Subject to public order, morality and health, every relig ious denomination or any section thereof shall have the right--  (a) to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes;  (b) to (d) xxx xxx xxx"  245.
Precedent	The right under Clause (a) is a group right and is available to every religious denomination or any section thereof, be it of majority or any section thereof.
Precedent	It is evident from the opening words of Article 26 that this right is subject to public order, morality and health.
Precedent	246.
Precedent	The Constitution protects the cultural and educational rights of such minorities as are specified in Articles 29 and 30.
Precedent	247.
Precedent	Article 29 deals with the protection of interests of minorities.
Precedent	If affords protection to minorities who have a distinct language, script or culture of their own and declares that they shall have the right to conserve the same provided they form a section of citizens residing in the territory of India.
Precedent	Sub-clause (1) of Section 29 is in the following terms: "29.
Precedent	Protection of interests of minorities - (1) Any section of the citizens r esiding in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same."
Precedent	248.
Precedent	We shall advert to Clause (2) of Article 29 separately;  249.
Precedent	Article 30 of the Constitution confers a special right on the minorities to establish and administer educational institutions.
Precedent	For the purposes of this Article, religious or linguistic minorities alone are recognised for conferring rights under Article 30.
Precedent	Article 30 reads as under:  "30.
Precedent	Right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions - (1) All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	(1A) In making any law providing for the compulsory acquisition of any property of an educational institution established and administered by a minority, referred to in Clause (1), the <ORG> shall ensure that the amount fixed by or determined under such law for the acquisition of suc h property is such as would not restrict or abrogate the right guaranteed under that clause.
Precedent	(2) The <ORG> shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions, discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language."
Precedent	250.
Precedent	Clause (1) of Article 30 provides that all minorities, whether based on religion on language, shall have the right (i) to establish and (ii) administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The amplitude of the right is couched in very wide language.
Precedent	It is also a group right but any individual belonging to minorities, linguistic or religious, may exercise this right for the benefit of his own group.
Precedent	It is significant to note that the right conferred under Article 30 is not subjected to any limitations.
Precedent	The Article speaks of "their choice".
Precedent	The right to establish and administer educational institutions is of the choice of the minorities.
Precedent	The expression "institutions of their choice" means ins titutions for the benefit of the minorities; the word 'choice' encompasses both of the students as well as of the type of education to be imparted in such educational institutions.
Precedent	251.
Precedent	It has been settled by a catena of decisions of this <ORG> [In Re The Kerala Education Bill, 1957 [1959 SCR 995], Rev.
Precedent	<NAME> and Ors.
Precedent	v. State of Bombay and Anr., <ORG> and <ORG> v. State of Gujarat and Anr.
Precedent	and <ORG> <CITATION_13862901> that Article 30 of the Constitution conferred special rights on the minorities (linguistic or religious).
Precedent	The word 'minority' is not defined in the Constitution but literally it means 'a non-dominant' group.
Precedent	It is a relative term and is referred to, to represent the smaller of two members, sections or group called 'majority'.
Precedent	In that sense, there may be political minority, religious minority, linguistic minority, etc.
Precedent	252.
Precedent	The other clauses of this Article will be discussed separately.
Precedent	253.
Precedent	With these few comments, I am in respec tful agreement with the majority judgment on issue No.
Precedent	1.
Precedent	2.
Precedent	DOES UNNIKRISHNAN'S CASE REQUIRE RE-CONSIDERATION?
Precedent	3.
Precedent	IN CASE OF PRIVATE INSTITUTION (UNAIDED AND AIDED) CAN THERE BE GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND, IS SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?
Precedent	4.
Precedent	IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THE EXISTENCE OF A RELIGIOUS OR LINGUISTIC MINORITY IN RELATION TO ARTICLE 30 , WHAT IS TO BE THE UNIT, THE STATE OR THE COUNTRY AS A WHOLE?
Precedent	On these issues, I respectfully agree with the reasoning and conclusion of the majority.
Precedent	5.
Precedent	TO WHAT EXTENT CAN THE RIGHTS OF AIDED PRIVATE MINORITY INSTITUTIONS TO ADMINISTER BE REGULATED?
Precedent	254.
RatioOfTheDecision	In regard to this issue and particularly on the interpretation of Article 29(2) vis-a-vis, clauses (1) and (2) of Article 30 and the conclusion recorded by the majority, I have some reservations.
RatioOfTheDecision	I could not persuade myself to agree with the majority judgment as well as the opinions of my learned brethren <NAME>, <NAME> and more so with the dissenting opinion of <NAME>, <NAME> with which <NAME>, <NAME> agreed.
RatioOfTheDecision	On this aspect, I agre e with the reasoning and conclusion of our learned sister <NAME>, J. I would give my reasons for this conclusion later.
RatioOfTheDecision	255.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the result I am in respectful agreement with the answer recorded in the majority judgment on question Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	1, 2, 3(a), 3(b) and 4 except to the extent of reasoning and interpretation of Articles 29(2) and 30(1) on which the answer is based.
RatioOfTheDecision	I agree, with respect, with answers to questions 3(a), 5(c), 6(a), 6(b) and 7.
RatioOfTheDecision	In regard to question No.
RatioOfTheDecision	8, reconsideration of the judgment of <ORG> of this Court in <ORG> (supra) which relates to aided minority institutions, I agree with the answer recorded in the majority judgment, except to the extent of interplay between Article 29(2) and 30(1) and giving to the authorities power to prescribe a percentage having regard to the type of institution and educational needs of minorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	I agree also with the answer to question No.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	256.
Precedent	With regard to answer to question No.
Precedent	5(b) and the common answer to questi on Nos.
Precedent	10 and 11, in the light of the comments made above, I would answer that all the citizens have a right to establish and administer educational institutions under Articles 19(1)(g) and 26.
Precedent	The minorities have an additional right to establish and administer educational institution 'of their choice' under Article 30(1).
Precedent	The extent of these rights are, therefore, different.
Precedent	A comparison of Articles 18, 26 and 30 would show that whereas the educational institutions established and run by the citizens under Article 19(1)(g) and Article 26(a) are subject to the discipline of Articles 19(6) and 26 there are no such limitations in Article 30 of the Constitution, so in that the right conferred thereunder is absolute.
Precedent	However, the educational institutions established by the minorities under Article 30(1) will be subject only to the regulatory measures which should be consistent with Article 30(1) will be subject only to the regulatory measures which should be consistents with Article 30(1) of the Constitution.
Precedent	My  answer to question 5(b) is that the right of the minority institutions to admit students of the minority, in any, would not be affected in any way by receipt of <ORG> and, I intend to dilate on this aspect of the matter in my separate reasoned opinion later.
Precedent	It is sufficient to state at this stage that subject to this., I agree with the common answer to question Nos.
Precedent	10 and 11.
Precedent	___________________________________________________________________________ <NAME>, J.
Precedent	257.
Precedent	I have had the privilege of reading the opinion of Hon'ble the Chief Justice.
Precedent	Although I am in broad agreement with most of the conclusions arrived at in the judgment, I have to record my respectful dissent with the answer to Question 1 and Question 8 in so far as it holds that Article 29(2) is applicable to Article 30(1).
Precedent	I consequently differ with the conclusions as stated in answer to Questions 4, 5(b) and 11 to the extent mentioned in this opinion.
Precedent	258.
Precedent	Re: Question 1 What is the meaning and content of the expression 'minorities" in Ar ticle 30 of the Constitution of India?
Precedent	Article 30 affords protection to minorities in respect of limited rights, namely, the setting up and administration of an educational institution.
Precedent	The question of protection raises three questions : (1) protection to whom?
Precedent	(2) against whom?
Precedent	and (3) against what?
Precedent	The word minority means "numerically less".
Precedent	The question then is numerically less in relation to the country or the <ORG> or some other political or geographical boundary?
Precedent	259.
Precedent	The protection under Article 30 is against any measure, legislative or otherwise, which infringes the right's granted under that article.
Precedent	The right is not claimed in a vacuum -- it is claimed against a particular legislative or executive measure and the question of minority status must be judged in relation to the offending piece of legislation or executive order.
Precedent	If the source of the infringing action is the <ORG>, then the protection must be given against the <ORG> and the status of the individual or group claiming the protection must  be determined with reference to the territorial limits of the <ORG>.
Precedent	If however the protection is limited to <ORG> action, it will leave the group which is otherwise a majority for the purpose of <ORG> legislation, vulnerable to <ORG> legislation which operates on a national basis.
Precedent	When the entire nation is sought to be affected, surely the question of minority status must be determined with reference to the country as a whole.
Precedent	260.
Precedent	In Re: Kerala Education Bill, 1957 1959 SCR 995, p.1047, the contention of the <ORG> of Kerala was that in order to constitute a minority for the purposes of Articles 29(1) and 30(1), persons must be numerically in the minority in the particular area or locality in which educational institution is or is intended to be constituted.
Precedent	The argument was negatived as being held inherently fallacious (p.1049) and also contrary to the language of Article 350A.
Precedent	However, the Court expressly refrained from finally opining as to whether the existence of a minority community should in circumst ances and for the purposes of law of that <ORG> be determined on the basis of the population of the whole <ORG> or whether it should be determined on the <ORG> basis only when the validity of a law extending to the whole <ORG> is in question or whether it should be determined on the basis of the population of a particular locality when the law under attack applies only to that locality.
Precedent	In other words the issue was - should the minority status be determined with reference to the source of legislation viz., the <ORG> legislature or with reference to the extent of the law's application.
Precedent	Since in that case the Bill in question was admittedly a piece of <ORG> legislation and also extended to the whole of the <ORG> of Kerala it was held that "minority must be determined by reference to the entire population of that <ORG>."
Precedent	(p.1050)  261.
Precedent	In the subsequent decision in <ORG> v. <ORG> of Punjab (I) 1971 SCR (Supp) 688, 697, this <ORG> opted for the first principle namely that the position of minorities should b e determined in relation to the source of the legislation in question and it was clearly said: "Though there was a faint attempt to canvas the position that religious or linguistic minorities should be minorities in relation to the entire population of the country in our view they are to be determined only in relation to the particular legislation which is sought to be impugned, namely that if it is the <ORG> legislature these minorities have to be determined in relation to the population of the <ORG>."
Precedent	262.
Precedent	In <ORG> v. <ORG> of Punjab (II), 1971 SCR (Supp) 677, Punjabi had been sought to be enforced as the sole medium of instruction and for examinations on the ground that it was the national policy of <ORG> to energetically develop Indian languages and literature.
Precedent	The <ORG> in question used Hindi as the medium of instruction and Devnagri as the script.
Precedent	Apart from holding that the <ORG> Legislature was legislatively incompetent to make Punjabi the sole medium of instruction, the  Court reaffirmed the fact that the <ORG> although run by the Hindu community which represents the national majority, in Punjab it was a religious minority with a distinct script and therefore the <ORG> could not compel the petitioner-<ORG> to teach in Punjabi or take examinations in that language with Gurmukhi script.
Precedent	263.
Precedent	But assuming that <ORG> had itself prescribed Hindi as the compulsory medium of instruction in all educational institutions throughout the length and breadth of the country.
Precedent	If a minority's status is to be determined only with respect to the territorial limits of a <ORG>, non- Hindi speaking persons who are in a majority in their own <ORG> but in a minority in relation to the rest of the country, would not be able to impugn the legislation on the ground that it interferes with their right to preserve a distinct language and script.
Precedent	On the other hand a particular institution run by members of the same group in a different <ORG> would be able to challenge the same legislation and cl aim protection in respect of the same language and culture.
Precedent	264.
Precedent	Apart from this incongruity, such an interpretation would be contrary to Article 29(1) which contains within itself an indication of the 'unit' as far as minorities are concerned when it says that any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same.
Precedent	Merely because persons having a distinct language, script or culture are resident within the political and geographical limits of a State within which they may be in a majority, would not take them out of the phrase "section of citizens residing in the territory of India".
Precedent	It is a legally fortuitous circumstances that states have been created along linguistic lines after the framing of the Constitution.
Precedent	265.
Precedent	In my opinion, therefore, the question whether a group is a minority or not must be determined in relation to the source and territorial application of the particula r legislation against which protection is claimed and I would answer question 1 accordingly.
Precedent	266.
Precedent	Re: Question 8 Whether the ratio laid down by this <ORG> in the <ORG> case (<ORG> <CITATION_13862901> is correct ?
Precedent	If no, what order?
Precedent	267.
Precedent	In <ORG> College, the <ORG> decided (a) that the minorities right to admit students under Article 30(1) had to be balanced with the rights conferred under Article 29(2).
Precedent	Therefore the <ORG> could regulate the admission of students of the minority institutions so that not more than 50% of the available seats were filled in by the children of the minority community and (b) the minority institution could evolve its own procedure for selecting students for admission in the institutions.
Precedent	There can no be quarrel with the decision of the court on the second issue.
Precedent	However, as far as the first principle is concerned, in my view the decision is erroneous and does not correctly state the law.
Precedent	268.
Precedent	Article 30(1) of the Constitution provides that "All minorities , whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice".
Precedent	Article 29(2) on the other hand says that "no citizen shall be denied admission into any education institution, maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them."
Precedent	269.
Precedent	Basically, the question is whether Article 30(1) is subject to Article 29(2) or is Article 29(2) subject to Article 30(1).
Precedent	If Article 30(1) does not confer the right to admit students then of course there is no question of conflict with Article 29(2) which covers the field of admission into "any education institution".
Precedent	The question, therefore, assumes that the right granted to minorities under Article 30(1) involves the right to admit students.
Precedent	Is this assumption valid?
Precedent	The other assumption on which the question proceeds is that minority institutions not receiving aid are outside the arena of this apparent conflict.
Precedent	Therefore the issue s hould be more appropriately framed as:- does the receipt of <ORG> aid and consequent admission of non-minority students affect the rights of minorities to establish and administer educational institution of their choice?
Precedent	I have sought to answer the question on an interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution so that no provision is rendered nugatory or redundant <NAME> and Ors.
Precedent	v. The <ORG> of Mysore and Ors.
Precedent	1958 SCR 895, 918; <CITATION_944601> ; 1959 Suppl 1 SCR 806,; on an interpretation of the provisions in the context of the objects which were sought to be achieved by the framers of the Constitution; and, finally on a consideration of how this <ORG> has construed these provisions in the past.
Precedent	270.
Precedent	Both Articles 29 and 30 are in Part III of the Constitution which deals with 'Fundamental Rights'.
Precedent	The fundamental rights have been grouped and placed under separate headings.
Precedent	For the present purposes, it is necessary to consider the second, fourth and fifth groups.
Precedent	The other Articles  in the other groups are not relevant.
Precedent	The second group consists of Articles 14 to 18 which have been clubbed under 'Right to Equality'.
Precedent	Articles 25 to 28 are placed under the fourth heading 'Right to Freedom of Religion'.
Precedent	Articles 29 and 30 fall within the fifth heading 'Cultural and Educational Rights'.
Precedent	271.
Precedent	The rights guaranteed under the several parts of Part III of the Constitution overlap and provide different facets of the objects sought to be achieved by the Constitution.
Precedent	These objectives have been held to contain the basic structure of the Constitution which cannot be amended in exercise of the powers under Article 368 of the Constitution Keshvananda Bharti v. State of Kerala.
Precedent	Amongst these objectives are those of Equality and Secularism.
Precedent	According to those who have argued in favour of a construction by which Article 29(2) prevails order Article 30 , Article 29(2) ensures the equal right to education to all citizens, whereas if Article 30 is given predominance it would not be in keeping with the achi evement of this equality and would perpetuate differences on the basis of language and more importantly, religion, which would be contrary to the secular character of the Constitution.
Precedent	Indeed the decision in St. Stephens in holding that Article 29(2) applies to Article 30(1) appears to have proceeded on similar considerations.
Precedent	Thus it was said that unless Article 29(2) applied to Article 30(1) it may lead to "religious bigotry"; that it would be "inconsistent with the central concept of secularism" and "equality embedded in the Constitution" and that an "educational institution irrespective of community to which it belongs is a melting pot in our national life".
Precedent	Although Article 30(1) is not limited to religious minorities, having regard to the tenor of the arguments and the reasoning in St. Stephens in support of the first principle, I propose to consider the argument on 'Secularism" first.
Precedent	272.
Precedent	Article 30 and Secularism The word 'secular' is commonly understood in contradiction to the word 'religious'.
Precedent	The  political philosophy of a secular Government has been developed in the west in the historical context of the pre-eminence of the established church and the exercise of power by it over society and its institutions.
Precedent	With the burgeoning presence of diverse religious groups and the growth of liberal and democratic ideas, religious intolerance and the attendant violence and persecution of "non-believers" was replaced by a growing awareness of the right of the individual to profession of faith, or non-profession of any faith.
Precedent	The democratic <ORG> gradually replaced and marginalised the influence of the church.
Precedent	But the meaning of the word 'secular <ORG>' in its political context can and has assumed different meanings in different countries, depending broadly on historical and social circumstances, the political philosophy and the felt needs of a particular country.
Precedent	In one country, secularism may mean an actively negative attitude to all religions and religious institutions; in another it may mean a strict "wall of  separation" between the <ORG> and religion and religious institutions.
Precedent	In India the <ORG> is secular in that there is no official religion, India is not a theocratic <ORG>.
Precedent	However the Constitution does envisage the involvement of the <ORG> in matters associated with religion and religious institutions, and even indeed with the practice, profession and propagation of religion in its most limited and distilled meaning.
Precedent	273.
Precedent	Although the idea of secularism may have been borrowed in the Indian Constitution from the west.
Precedent	It has adopted its own unique brand of secularism based on its particular history and exigencies which are far removed in many ways from secularism as it is defined and followed in European countries, the United <ORG>s of America and Australia.
Precedent	274.
Precedent	The First Amendment to the American Constitution is as follows: "<ORG> shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof."
Precedent	275.
Precedent	In the words of <NAME>, the clause against establishment of re ligion by law was intended to erect 'a wall of separation between Church and <ORG>'.
Precedent	'<NAME> v. United <ORG>s', (1878) 98 U S 145 at p.164.
Precedent	276.
Precedent	The Australian Constitution has adopted the First Amendment in Section 116 which is based on that Amendment.
Precedent	It reads: "The <ORG> shall not make any laws for establishing any religion, or for imposing any religious observance, or for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion, and no religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office or public trust under the <ORG>."
Precedent	<CITATION_724540> .
Precedent	277.
Precedent	Under the Indian Constitution there is no such "wall of separation" between the <ORG> and religious institutions.
Precedent	Article 16(5) recognises the validity of laws relating to management of religious and denominational institutions.
Precedent	Article 28(2) contemplates the <ORG> itself managing educational institutions wherein religious instructions are to be imparted.
Precedent	And among the subjects over which both the Union and the <ORG>s have legislative competen ce as set out in List No.
Precedent	III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution Entry No.
Precedent	28 are:  "Charitable and charitable institutions, charitable and religious endowments and religious institutions".
Precedent	278.
Precedent	Although like other secular Governments, the Indian Constitution in Article 25(1) provides for freedom of conscience and the individual's right freely to profess, practice and propagate religion, the right is expressly subject to public order, morality and health and to the other provisions in Part III of the Constitution.
Precedent	The involvement of the <ORG> with even the individual's right under Article 25(1) is exemplified by Article 25(2) by which the <ORG> is empowered to make any law.
Precedent	"a) regulating or restricting any economic, financial, political or other secular activity which may be associated with religious practice;  (b) providing for social welfare and reform or the throwing open of Hindu religious institutions of a public character to all classes and sections of Hindus.
Precedent	279.
Precedent	As a result the courts ha ve upheld laws which may regulate or restrict matters associated with religious practices if such practice does not form an integral part of the particular religion <NAME> v. <ORG> of Tamil Nadu <NAME> v. <ORG> of Bihar 1959 SCR 629.
Precedent	280.
Precedent	Freedom of religious groups or collective religious rights are provided for under Article 26 which says that:  "Subject to public order, morality and health, every religious denomination or any section thereof shall have the right-  (a) to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes.
Precedent	(b) To manage and acquire movable and immovable property; and  (c) To own and acquire movable and immovable property; and  (d) To administer such property in accordance with law.
Precedent	281.
Precedent	The phrase "matters of religion" has been strictly construed so that matters not falling strictly within that phrase may be subject to control and regulation by the <ORG>.
Precedent	The phrase 'subject to public order, morality and health' and "in accordance with law" also envisages exten sive <ORG> control over religious institutions.
Precedent	Article 26(a) allows all persons of any religious denomination to set up an institution for a charitable purpose, and undisputedly the advancement of education is a charitable purpose.
Precedent	Further, the right to practise, profess and propagate religion under Article 25 if read with Article 26(a) would allow all citizens to exercise such rights through an educational institution.
Precedent	These rights are not limited to minorities and are available to 'all persons'.
Precedent	Therefore, the Constitution does not consider the setting up of educational institutions by religious denominations or sects to impart the theology of that particular denomination as anti-secular.
Precedent	Having regard to the structure of the Constitution and its approach to 'Secularism', the observation in St. Stephens noted earlier is clearly not in keeping with 'Secularism' as provided under the Indian Constitution.
Precedent	The Constitution as it stands does not proceed on the 'melting pot' theory.
Precedent	The Indian Constitution, rath er represents a 'salad bowl' where there is homogeneity without an obliteration of identity.
Precedent	282.
Precedent	The ostensible separation of religion and the <ORG> in the field of the <ORG>s revenue provided by Article 27 (which prohibits compulsion of an individual to pay any taxes which are specifically appropriated for the expenses for promoting or maintaining any particular religious or religious denomination) does not, however, in terms prevent the <ORG> from making payment out of the proceeds of taxes generally collected towards the promotion or maintenance of any particular religious or religious denomination.
Precedent	Indeed, Article 290(A) of the Constitution provides for annual payment to certain <ORG> funds in the following terms. "
Precedent	A sum of forty-six lakhs and fifty thousand rupees shall be charged on, and paid out of <ORG> of the <ORG> of Kerala every year to the Travancore <ORG> fund; and a sum of thirteen lakhs and fifty thousand rupees shall be charged on, and paid out of <ORG>  of the <ORG> of Tamil Nadu every year to <ORG> established in that <ORG> for the maintenance of Hindu temples and shrines in the territories transferred to that <ORG> on the 1st day of November, 1956, from the <ORG> of Travancore Cochin."
Precedent	This may be compared with the decision of <ORG> in <NAME> v. <ORG> (330 IUS 1) where it was held that the <ORG> could not reimburse transportation charges of children attending a Roman Catholic School.
Precedent	283.
Precedent	Article 28 in fact brings to the fore the nature of the word 'secular' used in the preamble to the Constitution and indicates clearly that there is no wall of separation between the <ORG> and religious institutions under the Indian Constitution.
Precedent	No doubt Article 28(1) provides that if the institution is an educational one and it is wholly maintained by the <ORG> funds, religious instruction cannot be provided in such institution.
Precedent	However, Article 28(1) does not forbid the setting up of an institution for charitable purposes by  any religious denomination nor does it prohibit the running of such institution even though it may be wholly maintained by the <ORG>.
Precedent	What it prohibits is the giving of religious instruction.
Precedent	Even, this prohibition is not absolute.
Precedent	It is subject to the extent of Sub- Article (2) of Article 28 which provides that if the educational institution has been established under any endowment or trust which requires that religious instruction shall be imparted in such institution, then despite the prohibition in Article 28(1) and despite the fact that the education institution is in fact administered by the <ORG>, religious instruction can be imparted in such institution.
Precedent	Article 28(2) thus in no uncertain terms envisages that an educational institution administered by the <ORG> and wholly maintained by the <ORG> can impart religious instruction.
Precedent	It recognises in Article 28(3) that there may be educational institutions imparting religious instruction according to whichever faith and conducting religious worship which c an be recognised by the <ORG> and which can also receive aid out of <ORG> funds.
Precedent	284.
Precedent	Similarly, Article 28(3) provides that no individual attending any educational institution which may have been recognised by the <ORG> or is receiving <ORG> aid can be compelled to take part in any religious instruction that may be imparted in such institution or to attend any religious worship that may be conducted in such institution without such person's consent.
Precedent	Implicit in this prohibition is that acknowledgement that the <ORG> can recognize and aid an educational institution giving religious instruction or conducting religious worship.
Precedent	In the United <ORG>s, on the other hand it has been held that <ORG> maintained institutions cannot give religious instruction even if such instruction is not compulsory.
Precedent	(See.
Precedent	<NAME> v. <ORG> 1947 (82) Law Ed.
Precedent	649).
Precedent	285.
Precedent	In the ultimate analysis the Indian Constitution does not unlike the United <ORG>s, subscribe to the people of non- interference of the <ORG> in religio us organisations buy it remains secular in that it strives to respect all religions equally, the equality being understood in its substantive sense as is discussed in the subsequent paragraphs.
Precedent	286.
Precedent	Article 30(1) and Article 14 ' Equality' which has been referred to in the Preamble is provided for in a group of Articles led by Article 14 of the Constitution which says that the <ORG> shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although stated in absolute terms Article 14 proceeds on the premise that such equality of treatment is required to be given to persons who are equally circumstanced.
RatioOfTheDecision	Implicit in the concept of equality is the concept that persons who are in fact unequally circumentanced cannot be treated on par.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Constitution has itself provided for such classification in providing for special or group or class rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some of these are in Part III itself [ Article 26 , Article 29(1) and Article 30(1)] Other such Articles co nferring group rights or making special provision for a particular class include Articles 336 and 337 where special provision has been made for <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further examples are to be found in Articles 122, 212 and other Articles giving immunity from the ordinary process of the law to persons holding certain offices.
Precedent	Again Articles 371 to 371(H) contain special provisions for particular States.
Precedent	287.
Precedent	The principles of non-discrimination which form another fact of equality are provided for under the Constitution under Articles 15(1), 16(1) and 29(2).
Precedent	The first two articles are qualified by major exceptions under Articles 15(3) and (4), 16 (3), (4), (4A) and Article 335 by which the Constitution has empowered the <ORG> to enact legislation or otherwise specially provide for certain classes of citizens.
Precedent	The fundamental principle of equality is not compromised by these provisions as they are made on a consideration that the person so 'favoured' are unequals to begin with whether socially, econo mically or politically.
Precedent	Furthermore, the use of the word 'any person' in Article 14 in the context of legislation in general or executive action affecting group rights is construed to mean persons who are similarly situated.
Precedent	The classification of such persons for the purposes of testing the differential treatment must, of course, be intelligible and reasonable the reasonableness being determined with reference to the object for which the action is taken.
Precedent	This is the law which has been settled by this <ORG> in a series of decisions, the principle having been enunciated as early as in 1950 in <CITATION_4354> .
Precedent	1950 SCR 869.
Precedent	288.
Precedent	The equality, therefore, under Article 14 is not indiscriminate.
Precedent	Paradoxical as it may seem, the concept of equality permits rational or discriminating discrimination.
Precedent	Conferment of special benefits or protection or rights to a particular group of citizens for rational reasons is envisaged under Article 14 and is implicit in the concept of equality.
Precedent	There is no abridgment of the conten t of Article 14 thereby-- but an exposition and practical application of such content.
Precedent	289.
Precedent	The distinction between classes created by <ORG> and classes provided for in the Constitution itself, is that the classification under the first may be subjected to judicial review and tested against the touchstone of the Constitution.
Precedent	But the classes originally created by the Constitution itself are not so subject as opposed to constitutional amendments.
Precedent	<CITATION_257876> AIR 1973 1461  290.
Precedent	On a plain reading of the provisions of the Article, all minorities based on religion or language, shall have the right to (1) establish and (2) administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The emphasized words unambiguously and in mandatory terms grant the right to all minorities to establish and administer educational institutions.
Precedent	I would have thought that it is self evident and in any event, well settled by a series of decisions of this Court that Article 30(1) creates a special class in the field of educational  institutions -- a class which is entitled to special protection in the matters of setting up and administering educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	This has been affirmed in the decisions of this Court where the right has been variously described as "a sacred obligation" In re Kerala Education Bill, 1957 1959 SCR 995, 1070, "am absolute right" <CITATION_751632> , "a special right" <CITATION_833521> 1969 (2) SCR 173, 192, "a guaranteed right" <CITATION_686466> 1971 (1) SCR 734, 740, "the conscience of the nation" <CITATION_703393> , "a befitting pledge" ibid 223, " a special right" ibid 224 and an "article of faith" Lily Kurain v. <NAME>.
Precedent	291.
Precedent	The question then is -- does this special right in an admitted linguistic or religious minority to establish and administer an educational institution encompass the right to admit students belonging to that particular community.
Precedent	292.
Precedent	Before considering the earlier decision on this, a semantic analysis of the word used in Article 30(1) of indicates that the right to  admit students is an intrinsic part of Article 30(1).
Precedent	293.
Precedent	First -- Article 30(1) speaks of the right to set up an educational institution.
Precedent	An educational institution is not a structure of bricks and mortar.
Precedent	It is the activity which is carried on in the structure which gives it its character as an educational institution.
Precedent	An educational institution denotes the process or activity of education not only involving the educators but also those receiving education.
Precedent	It follows that the right to set up an educational institution necessarily includes not only the selection of teachers or educators but also the admission of students.
Precedent	294.
Precedent	Second -- Article 30(1) speaks of the right to "administer" an educational institution.
Precedent	If the administration of an educational institution includes and means its organisation then the organisation cannot be limited to the infrastructure for the purposes of education and exclude the persons for whom the infrastructure is set up, namely, the students.
Precedent	The right to admit students is , therefore, part of the right to administer an educational institution.
Precedent	295.
Precedent	Third, - the benefit which has been guaranteed under Article 30 is a protection of benefit guaranteed to all members of the minority as a whole.
Precedent	What is protected is the community right which includes the right of children of the minority community to receive education and the right of parents to have their children educated in such institution.
Precedent	The content of the right lies not in merely managing an educational institution but doing so for the benefit of the community.
Precedent	Benefit can only lie in the education received.
Precedent	It would be meaningless to give the minorities the right to establish and set up an organisation for giving education as an end in itself, and deny them the benefit of the education.
Precedent	This would render the right a mere form without any content.
Precedent	The benefit to the community and the purpose of the grant of the right is in the actual education of the members of the community.
Precedent	296.
Precedent	Finally, - the words 'of their choice' is  not qualified by any words of limitation and would include the right to admit students of the minority's choice.
Precedent	Since the primary purpose of Article 30(1) is to give the benefit to the members of the minority community in question that 'choice' cannot be exercised in a manner that deprives that community of the benefit.
Precedent	Therefore, the choice must be directed towards fulfilling the needs of the community .
Precedent	How that need is met, whether by general education or otherwise, is for the community to determine.
Precedent	297.
Precedent	The interpretation is also in keeping with what this <ORG> has consistently held.
Precedent	In state of <CITATION_1964375> , the <ORG> said:  "..... surely then there must be implicit in such fundamental right the right to impart instruction in their own institutions to the children of their own Community in their own language.
Precedent	To hold otherwise will be to deprive Article 29(1) and Article 30(1) of the greater part of their contents."
Precedent	298.
Precedent	In Kerala Education Bill, 1957, it was said:  "The minorities, quite und erstandably, regard it as essential that the education of their children should be in accordance with the teachings of their religion and they hold, quite honestly, that such an education cannot be obtained in ordinary schools designed for all the members of the public but can only be secured in schools conducted under the influence and guidance of people well versed in the tenets of their religion and in the traditions of their culture.
Precedent	The minorities evidently desire that education should be imparted to the children of their community in an atmosphere congenial to the growth of their culture.
Precedent	Our Constitution makers recognised the validity of their claim and to allay their fears conferred on them the fundamental rights referred to above."
Precedent	299.
Precedent	The issue of admission to minority institutions under Article 30 arose in the decision of Rev.
Precedent	<NAME> where the <ORG>'s order reserving 80 per cent of the available seats in a minority Institution for admission of persons nominated by the <ORG> under  threat of derecognition if the reservation was not complied with, was struck down as being violative of Article 30(1).
Precedent	It was said that although the right of the minority may be regulated to secure the proper functioning of the institution, the regulations must be in the interest of institution and not 'in the interest of outsiders'.
Precedent	The view was reiterated in <ORG> when it was said:  -The real reason embodied in Article 30(1) of the Constitution is the conscience of the nation that the minorities religious as well as linguistic, are not prohibited from establishing and administering educational institutions of their choice for the purpose of giving their children the best general education to make them complete men and women of the country."
Precedent	300.
Precedent	In <ORG>, the <ORG> recognised that: "The right to select students for admission is a part of administration.
Precedent	It is indeed an important facet of administration.
Precedent	This power also could be regulated but the regulation must be reasonable j ust like any other regulation.
Precedent	It should be conducive to the welfare of the minority institution or for the betterment of those who resort to it."
Precedent	301.
Precedent	However, in a statement which is diametrically opposed to the earlier decisions of this <ORG>, it was held:  "The choice of institution provided in Article 30(1) does not mean that the minorities could establish educational institution for the benefit of their own community people.
Precedent	Indeed they cannot.
Precedent	It was pointed out in Re, Kerala Educational Bill that the minorities cannot establish educational institution only for the benefit of their community.
Precedent	If such was the aim, Article 30(1) would have been differently worded and it would have contained the words "for their own community".
Precedent	In the absence of such words it is legally impermissible to construe the article as conferring the right on the minorities to establish educational institution for their own benefit...." (P. 607)  302.
Precedent	This conclusion, in my respectful view, is based on a misreading of the decisio n of this <ORG> in <ORG>.
Precedent	In that case, there was no question of the non-minority students being given admission overlooking the needs of the minority community.
Precedent	The <ORG> was not called upon to consider the question.
Precedent	The underlying assumption in that case was that the only obstacle to the non-minority student getting admission into the minority institution was the <ORG>'s order to that effect and not the "choice" of the minority institution itself and a minority institution may choose to admit students not belonging to the community without shedding its minority character, provided the choice was limited to a 'sprinkling'.
Precedent	In fact the learned Judges in <NAME> case have themselves in a subsequent portion of the judgment (p.611) taken a somewhat contradictory stand to the view quoted earlier when they said:  ".....the minorities have the right to admit their own candidates to maintain the minority character of their institutions.
Precedent	That is a necessary concomitant right which flows from th e right to establish and administer educational institution in Article 30(1).
Precedent	There is also a related right to the parents in the minority communities.
Precedent	The parents are entitled to have their children educated in institutions having an atmosphere congenial to their own religion."
Precedent	303.
Precedent	The conclusion, therefore, is that the right to admission being an essential part of the constitutional guarantee under Article 30(1) a curtailment of that fundamental right in so far as it affect benefit of the minority community would amount to the an infringement of that guarantee.
Precedent	304.
Precedent	An Institution set up by minorities for educating members of the minority community does not cease to be a minority institution merely because it takes aid.
Precedent	There is nothing in Article 30(1) which allows the drawing of a distinction in the exercise of the right under that Article between needy minorities and affluent ones.
Precedent	Article 30(2) of the Constitution reinforces this when it says, "The <ORG> shall not, in granting aid to educational inst itutions, discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language".
Precedent	This assumes that even after the grant of aid by the <ORG> to an educational institution under the management of the minority, the educational institution continues to be a minority educational institution.
Precedent	According to some, Article 30(2) merely protects the minority's right of management of the educational institution and not the students who form part of such institution.
Precedent	Such a reading would be contrary to Article 30(1) itself.
Precedent	The argument is based on the construction of the word 'management'.
Precedent	'Management' may be defined as 'the process of managing' and is not limited to the people managing the institution.Concise Oxford Dictionary (10th Edition) 864.
Precedent	In the context of Article 30(1) and having regard to the content of the right, namely, the education of the minority community, the word 'management' in Article 30(2) must be construed to mean the 'p rocess and not the 'persons' in management 'Aid' by definition means to give support or to held or assist.
Precedent	It cannot be that by giving 'aid' one destroys those to whom 'aid' is given.
Precedent	The obvious purpose of Article 30(2) is to forbid the <ORG> from refusing aid to a minority educational institution merely because it is being run as a minority educational institution.
Precedent	Besides Article 30(2) is an additional right conferred on minorities under Article 30(1).
Precedent	It cannot be construed in a manner which is destructive of or as a limitation on Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	As has been said earlier by this <ORG> in Rev.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, supra Clause (2) of Article 30 is only another non-discriminatory clause in the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a right in addition to the rights under Article 30(1) and does not operate to derogate from the provisions in Clause (1).
RatioOfTheDecision	When in decision after decision, this <ORG> has held that aid in whatever form is necessary for an educational institution to survive, it is a specious argument to say that a minori ty institution can preserve its rights under Article 30(1) by refusing aid.
Precedent	305.
Precedent	I would, therefore, respectfully agree with the conclusion expressed in the majority opinion that grant of aid under Article 30(2) cannot be used as a lever to take away the rights of the minorities under Article 30(1).
Precedent	306.
Precedent	Articles 29(2) and 30(1) Article 29(2) says that "No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion, race, case, language or any of them".
Precedent	307.
Precedent	It is because Article 30(1) covers the right to admit students that there is an apparent conflict between Article 29(2) and Article 30(1).
Precedent	There are two ways of considering the relationship between Article 30(1) and Article 29(2 ), the first in the context of Article 14 , the second by an interpretation of Article 29(2) itself.
Precedent	308.
Precedent	Article 29(2) has not been expressed as a positive right.
Precedent	Nevertheless in substance it confers a right on a person not to be d enied admission into an aided institution only on the basis of religion, race etc.
Precedent	The language of Article 29(2) reflects the language used in other non-discriminatory Articles in the Constitution namely, Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 15 and Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 16.
Precedent	As already noted both the Articles contain exceptions which permit laws being made which make special provisions on the basis of sex, caste and race.
Precedent	Even in the absence of Clauses (3) and (4) of Article 15 and Clauses (3), (4) and 4(A) of Article 16 , <ORG> could have made special provisions on the forbidden bases of race, caste or sex, provided that the basis was not the only reason for creating a separate class.
Precedent	There would have to be an additional rational factor qualifying such basis to bring it within the concept of 'equality in fact' on the principle of 'rational classification'.
Precedent	For example when by law a reservation is made in favour of a member of a backward class in the matter of appointment, the reservation is no doubt m ade on the basis of caste.
Precedent	It is also true that to the extent of the reservation other citizens are discriminated against on one of the bases prohibited under Article 16(1).
Precedent	Nevertheless such legislation would be valid because the reservation is not only on the basis of caste/race but because of the additional factor of their backwardness.
Precedent	Clauses (3) and (4) of Article 15 like Clause 3, 4 and 4(A) of Article 16 merely make explicit what is otherwise implicit in the concept of equality under Article 14.
Precedent	309.
Precedent	By the same token, Article 29(2) does not create an absolute right for citizens to be admitted into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds.
Precedent	It does not prohibit the denial of admission on grounds other than religion, race, caste or language.
Precedent	Therefore, reservation of admissions on the grounds of residence, occupation of parents or other bases has been held to be a valid classification which does not derogate from the principles of equality under Article 1 4.
Precedent	[See: <CITATION_195765> : <CITATION_1276295> : 1971 SCR (Supp.)
Precedent	608.
Precedent	Even in respect of the "prohibited" bases, like the other non-discriminatory Articles, Article 29(2) is constitutionally subject to the principle of 'rational classification'.
Precedent	If a person is denied admission on the basis of a constitutional right, that is not a denial only on the basis of religion, race etc.
Precedent	This is exemplified in Article 15(4) which provides for: "Nothing in this article or in Clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the <ORG> from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Tribes."
Precedent	310.
Precedent	To the extent that legislation is enacted under Article 15(4) making special provision in respect of a particular caste, there is a denial of admission to others who do not belong to the caste.
Precedent	Nevertheless, Article 15(4) does not contradict the right under Article 29(2).
Precedent	This is because of the use of the word 'only' in Article 29(2).
Precedent	Article 15(4) is based on the rationale that Schedule Castes and Tribes are not on par with other members of society in the matter of education and, therefore, special provision is to be made for them.
Precedent	It is not, therefore, only caste but this additional factor which prevents clause 15(4) from conflicting with Article 29(2) and Article 14.
Precedent	311.
Precedent	Then again, under Article 337 , grants are made available for the benefit of the Anglo-Indian community in respect of education, provided that any educational institution receiving such grant makes available at least 40% of the annual admission for members of communities other than the Anglo-Indian community.
Precedent	Hence 60% of the admission to an aided <ORG> is constitutionally reservable for members of the Anglo-Indian community.
Precedent	To the extent of such reservation, there is necessarily a denial of admission to non-Anglo Indians on the basis of race.
Precedent	312.
Precedent	Similarly, the Constitution has also carved out a further exception to Article 29(2) in the form of Art icle 30(1) by recognising the rights of special classes in the form of minorities based on language or religion to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The right of the minorities under Article 30(1) does not operate as discrimination against other citizens only on the ground of religion or language.
Precedent	The reason for such classification is not only religion or language per se but minorities based on religion and language.
Precedent	Although, it is not necessary to justify a classification made by the Constitution, this fact of 'minorityship' is the obvious rationale for making a distinction, the underlying assumption being that minorities by their very numbers are in a politically disadvantaged situation and require special protection at least in the field of education.
Precedent	313.
Precedent	Articles 15(4), 337 and 30 are therefore facets of substantive equality by making special provision for special classes on special considerations.
Precedent	314.
Precedent	Even on general principles of interpretation, it cannot be held th at Article 29(2) is absolute and in effect wipes out Article 30(1).
Precedent	Article 29(2) refers to ' any educational institution' -- the word "any" signifying the generality of its application.
Precedent	Article 30(1) on the other hand refers to 'educational institutions established and administered by minorities'.
Precedent	Clearly, the right under Article 30(1) is the more particular right and on the principle of ' generalia speciaiibus non derogent, it must be held that Article 29(2) does not override he educational institutions even if they are aided under Article 30(1)  <CITATION_944601> : 1959 Suppl.
Precedent	1 SCR 806, 860, 1939 FCR 18.
Precedent	315.
Precedent	Then again Article 29(2) appears under the heading 'Protection of interests of minorities'.
Precedent	Whatever the historical reasons for the placement of Article 29(2) under this head, it is clear that no general principles of interpretation, the heading is at least a pointer or aid in construing the meaning of Article 29(2).
Precedent	As <NAME>, J said "if there is any doubt in the interpretation of the words in  the section, the heading certainly helps us to resolve that doubt."
Precedent	<CITATION_535729> .
Precedent	Therefore, if two interpretations of the words of Article 29(2) are possible, the one which is in keeping with the heading of the Article must be preferred.
Precedent	It would follow that Article 29(2) must be construed in a manner protective of minority interests and not destructive of them.
Precedent	316.
Precedent	When 'aid' is sought for by the minority institution to run its institution for the benefit of students belonging to that particular community, the argument on the basis of Article 29(2) is that if such an institution asks for aid it does so at the peril of depriving the very persons for whom aid was asked for in the first place.
Precedent	Apart from this anomalous result, if the taking of aid implies that the minority institution will be forced to give up or waive its right under Article 30(1 ), then on the principle that it is not permissible to give up or waive fundamental rights, such an interpretation is not possible.
Precedent	It has then been urged th at Article 29(2) applies to minority institutions under Article 30(1) much in the same way that Article 28(1) and 28(3) do.
Precedent	The argument proceeds on the assumption that an educational institution set up under Article 30(1) is set up for the purposes and with the sole object of giving religious instruction.
Precedent	The assumption is wrong.
Precedent	At the outset, it may also be noted that Article 28(1) and (3) do not in terms apply to linguistic minority educational institutions at all.
Precedent	Furthermore, the right to set up an educational institution in which religious instruction is to be imparted is a right which is derived from Article 26(a) which provides that every religious denomination or any section thereof shall have the right to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes, and not under Article 30(1).
Precedent	Educational institutions set up under Article 26(a) are, therefore, subject to Clauses (1) and (3) of Article 28.
Precedent	Article 30(1) is a right additional to Article 26(a).
Precedent	This follows from the fac t that it has been separately and expressly provided for and there is nothing in the language of Article 30(1) making the right thereunder subject to Articles 25 and 26.
Precedent	Unless it is so construed Article 30(1) would be rendered redundant <ORG>, paras 7 to 12.
Precedent	Therefore, what Article 30 does is to secure the minorities the additional right to give general education.
Precedent	Although in a particular case a minority educational institution may combine general education with religious instruction that is done in exercise of the rights derivable from Article 26(a) and Article 30(1) and not under Article 30(1) alone.
Precedent	Clauses (1) and (3) of Article 28 , therefore, do not apply to Article 30(1).
Precedent	The argument in support of reading Article 30(1) as being subject to Article 29(2) on the analogy of Article 28(1) and 28(3) is, I would think, erroneous.
Precedent	317.
Precedent	For the reasons already stated I have held the right to admit minority students to a minority educational institutions is an intrinsic part of Article 30(1).
Precedent	To  say that Article 29(2) prevails over Article 30(1) would be to infringe and to a large extent wipe out this right.
Precedent	There would be no distinction between a minority educational institution and other institutions and the rights under Article 30(1) would be rendered wholly inoperational.
Precedent	It is no answer to say that the rights of unaided minority institutions would remain untouched because Article 29(2) does not relate to unaided institutions at all.
Precedent	Whereas if one reads Article 29(2) as subject to Article 30(1) then effect can be given to both.
Precedent	And it is the latter approach which is to be followed in the interpretation of constitutional provisions.
Precedent	<NAME> v. State of Mysore, 1958 SCR 895, 918.
Precedent	In other words, as long as the minority educational institution is being run for the benefit of and catering to the needs of the members of that community under Article 30(1 ), Article 29(2) would not apply.
Precedent	But once the minority educational institution travels beyond the needs in the sense of requireme nts of its own community, at that stage it is no longer exercising rights of admission guaranteed under Article 30(1).
Precedent	To put it differently, when the right of admission is exercised not to meet the need of the minorities, the rights of admission given under Article 30(1) is to that extent removed and the institution is bound to admit students for the balance in keeping with the provisions of Article 29(2).
Precedent	318.
Precedent	A simple illustration would make the position clear.
Precedent	'Aid' is given to a minority institution.
Precedent	There are 100 seats available in that institution.
Precedent	There are 150 eligible candidates according to the procedure evolved by the institution.
Precedent	Of the 150, 60 candidates belong to that particular community and 90 to other communities.
Precedent	The institution will be entitled, under Article 30(1) to admit all 60 minority students first and then fill the balance 40 seats from the other communities without discrimination in keeping with Article 29(2).
Precedent	319.
Precedent	I would, therefore, not subscribe to the view that Article 29(2 ) operates to deprive aided minority institutions the right to admit members of their community to educational institutions established and administered by them either on any principle of interpretation or on any concept of equality or secularism.
Precedent	320.
Precedent	The next task is to consider whether this interpretation of Article 29(2) and 30(1) is discordant with the historical context in which these Articles came to be included in the Constitution.
Precedent	Before referring to the historical context, it is necessary to keep in mind that what is being interpreted are constitutional provisions which "have a content and a significance that vary from age to age".<NAME>: Nature of Judicial Process, p.17.
Precedent	Of particular significance is the content of the concept of equality which has been developed by a process of judicial interpretation over the years as discussed earlier.
Precedent	It is also necessary to be kept in mind that reports of the various Committees appointed by <ORG> and speeches made in <ORG> ly and the record of other proceedings of <ORG> are admissible, if at all, merely as extrinsic aids to construction and do not as such bind the <ORG>.
Precedent	Ultimately it is for this <ORG> to say what is meant by the words of the Constitution.
Precedent	321.
Precedent	The proponents of the argument that Article 29(2) over-rides Article 30(1) have referred to excerpts from the speeches made by members of <ORG> which have been quoted in support of their view.
Precedent	Apart from the doubtfulness as to the admissibility of the speeches, <CITATION_399708> : <CITATION_1195357> , in my opinion, there is nothing in the speeches which shows an intention on the part of <ORG> to abridge in any way the special protection afforded to minorities under Article 30(1).
Precedent	The intention indicated in the speeches relating to the framing of Article 29(2) appears to be an extension of the right of non-discrimination to members of the non-minority in respect of <ORG> aided or <ORG> maintained educational instituti ons.
Precedent	It is difficult to find in the speeches any unambiguous statement which points to a determination on the part of <ORG> to curtail the special rights of the minorities under Article 30(1).
Precedent	Indeed if one scrutinises the broad historical context and the sequence of events preceding the drafting of the Constitution it is clear that one of the primary objectives of the Constitution was to preserve, protect and guarantee the rights of the minorities unchanged by any rule or regulation that may be enacted by <ORG> or any State legislature.
Precedent	322.
Precedent	The history which preluded the independence of this country and the framing of the Constitution highlights the political context in which the Constitution was framed and the political content of the "special" rights given to minorities.
Precedent	I do not intend to burden this judgment with a detailed reference to the historical run-up to the Constitution as ultimately adopted by <ORG> vis-a-vis the rights of the minorities and the impor tance that was placed on enacting effective and adequate constitutional provisions to safeguard their interests.
Precedent	This has been adequately done by <NAME>, C.J.
Precedent	in <NAME> v. State of Kerala, on the basis of which the learned Judge came to the conclusion that the rights of the minorities under the Constitution formed part of the basic structure of the Constitution and were un-amendable and inalienable.
Precedent	323.
Precedent	I need only add that the rights of linguistic minorities assumed special significance and support when, much after independence, the imposition of a 'unifying language' led not to unity but to an assertion of differences.
Precedent	States were formed on linguistic bases showing the apparent paradox that allowing for and protecting differences leads to unity and integrity and enforced assimilation may lead to disaffection and unrest.
Precedent	The recognition of the principle of "unity in diversity" has continued to be the hall mark of the Constitution -- a concept which has been further strengthened by affording fur ther support to the protection of minorities on linguistic bases in 1956 by way of Articles 350A and 350B and in 1978 by introducing Clause (1-A) in Article 30 requiring "the <ORG>, that is to say, <ORG> in the case of a <ORG> legislation or a <ORG> legislature in the case of <ORG> legislation, in making a specific law to provide for the compulsory acquisition of the property of minority educational institutions, to ensure that the amount payable to the educational institution for the acquisition of its property will not be such as will in any manner impair the functioning of the educational institution".
Precedent	<ORG> <CITATION_1315823> .
Precedent	Any judicial interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution whereby this constitutional diversity is diminished would be contrary to this avowed intent and the political considerations which underlie this intention.
Precedent	324.
Precedent	The earlier decisions of this <ORG> show that the issue of admission to a minority educational institution almost invariably arose  in the context of the <ORG> claiming that a minority institution had to be 'purely' one which was established and administered by members of the minority community concerned, strictly for the members of the minority community, with the object only of preserving of the minority religion, language, script or culture.
Precedent	The contention on the part of the executive then was that a minority institution could not avail of the protection of Article 30(1) if there was any non-minority element either in the establishment, administration, admission or subjects taught.
Precedent	It was in that context that the Court in Kerala Education Bill held that a 'sprinkling of outsiders' being admitted into a minority institution did not result in the minority institution shedding its character and ceasing to be a minority institution.p.1052.
Precedent	It was also in that context that the Court in <ORG> (supra) came to the conclusion that a minority institution based on religion and language had the right to establish and administer educa tional institution for imparting general secular education and still not lose its minority character.
Precedent	While the effort of the <ORG> was to retain the 'purity' of a minority institution and thereby to limit it.
Precedent	"the principle which can be discerned in the various decisions of this <ORG> is that the catholic approach which led to the drafting of the provisions relating to minority rights should not be set at naught by narrow judicial interpretation".
Precedent	325.
Precedent	The 'liberal, generous and sympathetic approach' of this <ORG> towards the rights of the minorities has been somewhat reversed in the <NAME> case.
Precedent	Of course, this was the first decision of this <ORG> which squarely dealt with the inter-relationship of Article 29(2) and Article 30(1).
Precedent	None of the earlier cited decisions did.
Precedent	326.
Precedent	The decision of this <ORG> in <CITATION_1806386> , 1951 SCR 525 cannot be construed as an authority for the proposition that Article 29(2) overrides the constitutional right guaranteed to the minorities under Article 30(1 ) , as Article 30(1) was not at all mentioned in the entire course of the judgment.
Precedent	Similarly, the <ORG> in <CITATION_1964375> , 1955 SCR 568 was not called upon to consider a situation of conflict between Article 30(1) and 29(2).
Precedent	<ORG>, was in fact directly concerned with Article 337 and an Anglo-Indian educational institution.
Precedent	In that background, when it was suggested that Article 29(2) was intended to benefit minorities only, the <ORG> negatived the submission as it would amount to a 'double protection', "double" because an Anglo-Indian citizen would then have not only the protection of Article 337 by way of a 60% reservation but also the benefit of Article 29(2).
Precedent	It was not held by the <ORG> that Article 29(2) would override Article 337.
Precedent	327.
Precedent	There is thus no question of striking a balance between Article 29(2) and 30(1) as if they were two competing rights.
Precedent	Where once the <ORG> has held:  "Equality of opportunity for unequals can only mean aggravation of inequality.
Precedent	Equality of opp ortunity admits discrimination with reason and prohibits discrimination without reason.
Precedent	Discrimination with reasons means rational classification for differential treatment having nexus to the constitutional permissible objects."
Precedent	and where Article 29(2) is nothing more than a principle of equality, and when "the whole object of conferring the right on minorities under Article 30 is to ensure that there will be equality between the majority and the minority, if the minorities do not have such special protection they will be denied equality", it must follow that Article 29(2) is subject to the constitutional classification of minorities under Article 30(1).
Precedent	328.
Precedent	Finally, there appears be an inherent contradiction in the statement of the <ORG> in St. Stephens that:  "the minority aided educational institutions are entitled to prefer their community candidates to maintain the minority character of the institutions subject of course to conformity with the University standard.
Precedent	The <ORG> may regulate the intake i n this category with due regard to the need of the community in the area which the institution is intended to serve.
Precedent	But in no case such intake shall exceed 50 per cent of the annual admission.
Precedent	The minority institutions shall make available at least 50 per cent of the annual admission to members of communities other than the minority community.
Precedent	The admission of other community candidates shall be done purely on the basis of merit."
Precedent	(p.614)  329.
Precedent	I agree with the view as expressed by the Learned Chief Justice that there is no question of fixing a percentage when the need may be variable.
Precedent	I would only add that in fixing a percentage, the <ORG> in St. Stephens in fact "reserved" 50% of available seats in a minority institution for the general category ostensible under Article 29(2).
Precedent	Article 29(2) pertains to the right of an individual and is not a class right.
Precedent	It would therefore apply when an individual is denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid from the <ORG>  funds, solely on the basis of the ground of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	It does not operate to create a class interest or right in the sense that any educational institution has to set apart for non-minorities as a class and without reference to any individual applicant, a fixed percentage of available seats.
Precedent	Unless Articles 30(1) and 29(2) are allowed to operate in their separate fields then what started with the voluntary 'sprinkling' of outsiders, would become a major inundation and a large chunk of the right of an aided minority institution to operate for the benefit of the community it was set up to serve would be washed away.
Precedent	330.
Precedent	Apart from this difference with the view expressed by the majority view on the interpretation of Article 29(2) and Article 30(1).
Precedent	I am also unable to concur in the mode of determining the need of a minority community for admission to an educational institution set up by such community.
Precedent	Whether there has been a violation of Article 29(2) in refusing admissi on to a non minority student in a particular case must be resolved as it has been in the past by recourse to the <ORG>.
Precedent	It must be emphasised that the right under Article 29(2) is an individual one.
Precedent	If the non- minority student is otherwise eligible for admission, the decision on the issue of refusal would depend on whether the minority institution is able to establish that the refusal was only because it was satisfying the requirements of its own community under Article 30(1).
Precedent	I cannot therefore subscribe to the view expressed by the majority that the requirement of the minority community for admission to a minority educational institution should be left to the <ORG> or any other Governmental authority to determine.
Precedent	If the <ORG> is given the power to determine the requirements of the minority community in the matter of admission to its educational institutions, we would be subjecting the minority educational institution in question to an "intolerable encroachment" on the right under Article 30(1) and le t in by the back door as it were, what should be denied entry altogether.
Precedent	___________________________________________________________________________ S.N.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	1.
Precedent	We have had the advantage of going through the judgment of the learned Chief Justice of India, brother justice <NAME>, brother Justice <NAME> and sister Justice <NAME>.
Precedent	We are unable to agree with the views expressed by brother Justice <NAME> and sister Justice <NAME>.
Precedent	The learned Chief Justice has categorised the various questions into the following categories.
Precedent	1) Is there a fundamental right to set up educational institutions and, if so, under which provision;  2) Does the judgment in <NAME>'s case require reconsideration?
Precedent	3) In case of private unaided institutions can there be Government regulations and if so the what extent?
Precedent	4) In determining the existence of a religious or linguistic minority, in relation to Article 30 , what is to be the unit, the State or Country as a whole; and  5) To what extent the rights of aided mino rity institutions to administer be regulated.
Precedent	2.
Precedent	Justice <NAME> has dealt with categories 4 and 5 above.
Precedent	On other aspects he has agreed with the learned Chief Justice.
Precedent	3.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are in agreement with the reasoning and conclusion of the learned Chief Justice on categories 1 and 4.
RatioOfTheDecision	In respect of category 2 we agree with the learned Chief Justice that the cost incurred on educating a student in an unaided professional college was more than the total fee which is realized on the basis of the formula fixed in the scheme.
RatioOfTheDecision	This had resulted in revenue shortfalls.
RatioOfTheDecision	As pointed out by the learned Chief Justice even though by a subsequence decision (to <NAME>) this <ORG> had permitted some percentage of seats within the payment seats to be allotted to Non-Resident Indians, against payment of a higher amount as determined by the authorities, sufficient funds were still not available for the development of those educational institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	As pointed out by the learned Chief Justice experience has shown that most of th e "free seats" were occupied by students from affluent families, while students from less affluent families were required to pay much more to secure admission to "payment seats".
RatioOfTheDecision	As pointed out by the learned Chief Justice the reason for this was that students from affluent families had had better school education and the benefit of professional coaching facilities and were, therefore, able to secure higher merit positions in the common entrance test, and thereby secured the free seats.
RatioOfTheDecision	The education of these more affluent students was in a way being cross-subsidized by the financially poorer students who, because of their lower position in the merit list, could secure only "Payment seats".
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus we agree with the conclusion of the learned Chief Justice that the scheme cannot be considered to be a reasonable restriction and requires reconsideration and that the regulations must be minimum.
RatioOfTheDecision	However we cannot lose sight of the ground realities in our country.
RatioOfTheDecision	The majority of our population come from the poorer s ection of our society.
RatioOfTheDecision	They cannot and will not be able to afford the fees which will now be fixed pursuant to the judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	There must therefore be an attempt, not just on the part of the <ORG> and the <ORG>, but also by the educational institutions to ensure that students from the poorer section of society get admission.
RatioOfTheDecision	One method would be by making available scholarships or free seats.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the educational institution is willing to provide free seats then the costs of such free seats could also be partly covered by the fees which are now to be fixed.
RatioOfTheDecision	There should be no harm in the rich subsidising the poor.
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Chief Justice has repeatedly emphasised that capitation fees cannot be charged and that there must be no profiteering.
RatioOfTheDecision	We clarify that the concerned authorities will always be entitled to prevent by enactment or by regulations the charging of exorbitant fees or capitation fees.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are many such enactments already in force.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have not gone not the validity or otherwise of any such  enactment.
RatioOfTheDecision	No arguments regarding the validity of any such enactment have been submitted before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus those enactments will not be deemed to have been set aside by this judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course now by virtue of this judgment the fee structure fixed under any regulation or enactment will have to be reworked so as to enable educational institutions not only to break even but also to generate some surplus for future development/expansion and to provide for free seats.
RatioOfTheDecision	5.
RatioOfTheDecision	We also wish to emphasis, what has already been stated by the learned Chief Justice, that an educational institution must grant admission on some identifiable and acceptable manner.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is only in exceptional cases, that the management may refuse admission to a student.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, such refusal must not be whimsical or for extraneous reasons meaning thereby that the refusal must be based on some cogent and justifiable reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	In respect of categories 3 and 5 we wish to point out that this <ORG> has been constantly taking the view that these aid ed educational institutions (whether majority or minority) should not have unfettered freedom in the matter of administration and management.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> which gives aid to educational institution including minority educational institution can impose such conditions as are necessary for the proper maintenance for the higher standards of education.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> is also under an obligation to protect the interests of the teaching and non-teaching staff.
RatioOfTheDecision	In many <ORG>s, there are various statutory provisions to regulate the functioning of these educational institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every educational institution should have basic amenities.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it is a school, it should have healthy surroundings for proper education; it should have a playground, a laboratory, a library and other requisite facilities that are necessary for a proper functioning of the school.
RatioOfTheDecision	The teachers who are working in the schools should be governed by proper service conditions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <ORG>s where the entire pay and allowances for the teaching staff and non-teaching s taff are paid by the <ORG>, the <ORG> has got ample power to regulate the method of selection and appointment of teachers.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> can also prescribe qualifications for the teachers to be appointed in such schools.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly in an aided schools, <ORG> sometimes provides aid for some of the teachers only while denying the aid to other teachers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sometimes the <ORG> does not provide aid for the non-teaching staff.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> could, when granting aid, provides for the age and qualifications or recruitment of a teacher, the age of retirement and even for the manner in which an enquiry has to be held by the institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words there could be regulations which ensure that service conditions for teachers and staff receiving aid of the <ORG> and the teachers or the staff for which no aid is being provided are the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	Pre-requisite to attract good teachers is to have good service conditions.
RatioOfTheDecision	To bring about an uniformity in the service conditions <ORG> should be put at liberty to prescribe the same without interv ening in the process of selection of the teachers or their removal, dismissal etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	We agree that there need not be either prior and subsequent approval from any functionaries of <ORG> (as the case may be) for disciplinary action, removal or dismissal.
RatioOfTheDecision	However principles of natural justice must be observed and as already provided, by the learned Chief Justice all such action can be scrutinised by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The provisions contained in the various enactments are not specially challenged before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	The constitutional validity of the statutory provisions vis-a- vis the rights under Articles 19(1)(g), Article 26 , Article 29 and Article 30(1) of the Constitution can be examined only if a specific case is brought before the Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Educational Institution receiving <ORG> aid cannot claim to have complete autonomy in the matter of administration.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are found by various statutory provisions which are enacted to protect the interests of the education, students and teachers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Many of t he Statutes were enacted long back and stood the test of time.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nobody has ever challenged the provisions of these enactments.
RatioOfTheDecision	The regulations made by the <ORG>, to a great extent, depend on the extent of the aid given to institutions including minority institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In some <ORG>s, a lumpsum amount is paid as grant for maintenance of schools.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such cases, the <ORG> may not be within its right to impose various restrictions, specially regarding selection and appointment of teachers.
RatioOfTheDecision	But in some <ORG>s the entire salary of the teaching and non-teaching staff are paid, and these employees are given pension and other benefits, the <ORG> may then have a right and an obligation to see that the selection and appointment of teachers are properly made.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly the <ORG> could impose conditions to the effect that in the matter of appointments, preference shall be given to weaker sections of the community, specially physically handicapped or dependents of employees who died in harness.
RatioOfTheDecision	All such regulations may not b e said to be bad ad/or invalid and may not even amount to infringing the rights of the minority conferred under Article 30(1) of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Statutory provisions such as labour laws and welfare legislations etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	would be applicable to minority educational institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	As this decision is being rendered by a larger bench consisting of eleven judges, we feel that it is not advisable and we should not be taken to have laid down extensive guidelines in respect of myriads of legal questions that may arise for consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our view in this case the battlelines were not drawn up in the correct perspective and many of the aggrieved or affected parties were not before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	7.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards category 5, we agree with the conclusion of both the learned Chief Justice as well as Justice <NAME> that Article 29(2) applies to Article 30.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, we are unable to agree with the final reasoning that there must be a balancing between Articles 29(2) and 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	We, therefore, give our reasons for dis-agreeing with the fin al conclusion that there must be a balancing between Articles 29(2) and 30.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are conscious of the fact that the learned Chief Justice and Justice <NAME> have exhaustively dealt with the authorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, in our view there is need to emphasise the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are here called upon to interpret Articles 29(2) and 30.
RatioOfTheDecision	Submissions have been made that in interpreting these Articles the historical background must be kept in mind and that a contextual approach should be taken.
RatioOfTheDecision	We must, therefore, a) look at the history which led to incorporation of these Articles.
RatioOfTheDecision	The intention of the framers will then disclose how the contextual approach must be based; b) apply the well settled principles of interpretation; and c) keep the doctrine of "State Decisis" in mind.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the case of <CITATION_257876> , it has been held that in interpreting the provisions of a Statute or the Constitution it is the duty of the <ORG> to find out the legislative intent.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has been held that <ORG> debates are not conclus ive but that, in a Constitutional matter where the intent of the framers of the Constitution is to be ascertained, the <ORG> should look into the proceedings and the relevant data, including the speeches, which throw light on ascertaining the intent.
RatioOfTheDecision	In considering the nature and extent of rights conferred on minorities one must keep in mind the historical background and see how and for what purpose Article 30 was framed.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the case of <CITATION_1586918> reported in AIR (1984) SC 684 at page 686, it has been held as follows:  "Reports of the <ORG> which preceded the enactment of a legislation, reports of Joint <ORG> <ORG>, report of a <ORG> set up for collecting information leading to the enactment are permissible external aid to construction.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the basic purpose underlying construction of legislation is to ascertain the real intention of the <ORG>, why should the aids which <ORG> availed of such as report of a Special <ORG> preceding the enactment, existing state of Law , the environment necessitating enactment of legislation, and the object sought to be achieved, be denied to <ORG> whose function is primarily to give effect to the real intention of the <ORG> in enacting the legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such denial would deprive the <ORG> of a substantial and illuminating aid to construction.
RatioOfTheDecision	The modern approach has to a considerable extent eroded the exclusionary rule even in England."
Precedent	11.
Precedent	The partition of India caused great anguish, pain, bitterness and distrust amongst the various communities residing in India.
Precedent	Initially there was a demand for separate electorate and reservation of seats.
RatioOfTheDecision	However the principle of unity and equality for all prevailed.
RatioOfTheDecision	In return it was agreed that minorities would be given special protections.
RatioOfTheDecision	12.
RatioOfTheDecision	The reason why Article 30(1) was embodied in the Constitution has been set out by Chief Justice <NAME> (as he then was) in the case of <CITATION_703393> .
RatioOfTheDecision	The relevant portion reads as follows: "The right to establish and administer educational institutions  of their choice has been conferred on religious and linguistic minorities so that the majority who can always having their rights by having proper legislation do not pass a legislation prohibiting minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
RatioOfTheDecision	xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx  Every section of the public, the majority as well as minority has rights in respect of religion as contemplated in Articles 25 and 26 and rights in respect of language, script, culture as contemplated in Article 29.
RatioOfTheDecision	The whole object of conferring the right on minorities under Article 30 is to ensure that there will be equality between the majority and the minority.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the minorities do not have such special protection they will be denied equality.
RatioOfTheDecision	xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx  The real reason embodied in Article 30(1) of the Constitution is the conscience of the nation that the minorities, religious as well as linguistic, are not prohibited from establishing and administering educational ins titutions of their choice for the purpose of giving their children the best general education to make them complete men and women of the country.
RatioOfTheDecision	The minorities are given this protection under Article 30 in order to preserve and strengthen the integrity and unity of the country.
RatioOfTheDecision	The sphere of general secular education is intended to develop the commonness of boys and girls of our country.
RatioOfTheDecision	this is in the true spirit of liberty, equality and fraternity through the medium of education.
RatioOfTheDecision	If religious or linguistic minorities are not given protection under Article 30 to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice, they will feel isolated and separate.
RatioOfTheDecision	General secular education will open doors of perception and act as the natural light of mind for our countrymen to live in the whole."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied) In the same Judgment, Justice <NAME> has held as follows: "Before we deal with the contentions advanced before us and the scope and ambit of Article 30 of the Constitution, it may be pertinent  to refer to the historical background.
RatioOfTheDecision	India is the second most populous country of the world.
RatioOfTheDecision	The people inhabiting this vast land profess different religions and speak different languages.
RatioOfTheDecision	Despite the diversity of religion and language, there runs through the fabric of the nation the golden thread of a basic innate unity.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a mosaic of different religions, languages and cultures.
RatioOfTheDecision	Each of them has made a mark on the Indian polity and India today represents a synthesis of them all.
RatioOfTheDecision	The closing years of the British rule were marked by communal riots and dissentions.
RatioOfTheDecision	There was also a feeling of distrust and the demand was made by a section of the Muslims for a separate homeland.
RatioOfTheDecision	This ultimately resulted in the partition of the country.
Precedent	Those who led the fight for independence in India always laid great stress on communal amity and accord.
Precedent	They wanted the establishment of a secular State wherein people belonging to the different religions should all have a feeling of equality and non-discrimination.
Precedent	Demand h ad also been made before the partition by sections of people belonging to the minorities for reservation of seats and separate electorates.
Precedent	In order to bring about integration and fusion of the different sections of the population, the framers of the Constitution did away with separate electorates and introduced the system of joint electorates, so that every candidate in an election should have to look for support of all sections of the citizens.
Precedent	Special safeguards were guaranteed for the minorities and they were made a part of the fundamental rights with a view to instil a sense of confidence and security in the minorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Those provisions were a king of a Charter of rights for the minorities so that none might have the feeling that any section of the population consisted of first-class citizens and the others of second-class citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  13.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was the basis on which minority rights were guaranteed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rights were created so that minorities need have no apprehension that they would not  be able, either in the religious or in the educational fields, to do what the politically powerful majority could do.
RatioOfTheDecision	In matters of education what the politically powerful majority could do was to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice at their own expense.
RatioOfTheDecision	Principles of equality required that the minorities be given the same rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	The protection/special right was to ensure that the minorities could also establish and administer educational institutions of their choice at their own expense.
RatioOfTheDecision	The demand for separatism and separate electorates was given up as principles of secularism and equality were considered more important.
RatioOfTheDecision	The principle of secularism and equality meant that <ORG> would not discriminate on grounds of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus once <ORG> aid was given and/or taken then, whether majority or minority, all had to adhere to principles of equality and secularism.
RatioOfTheDecision	There never was any intention or desire to create a special or privileged class  of citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	14.
RatioOfTheDecision	With this background, it is necessary to see how Articles 29 and 30 came to be framed/incorporated in the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> was a strong advocate for minority rights.
Statute	Mr. <NAME> sent to <ORG> a Note with which he forwarded a draft Constitution.
Statute	This draft Constitution clearly indicates what rights were contemplated in framing, what is now, Article 30(1) Draft Article VI read as follows:  "The Right to Religious and Cultural Freedom (1) All citizens are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and to the right freely to profess and practise religion in a manner compatible with public order, morality or health :  Provided that the economic, financial or political activities associated with religious worship shall not be deemed to be included in the right to profess or practise religion.
Statute	(2) All citizens are entitled to cultural freedom, to the use of their mother tongue and the script thereof, and to adopt, study or use any other language and script of their choice.
Statute	(3) Citizens belonging to national minorities in a State whether based on religion or language have equal rights with other citizens in forming, controlling and administering at their own expense, charitable, religious and social institutions, schools and other educational establishments with the free use of their language and practice of their religion.
Statute	(emphasis supplied.
Statute	(4) No person may be compelled to pay taxes the proceeds of which are specifically appropriated in payment of religious requirements of any community of which he is not a member.
Statute	(5) Religious instruction shall not be compulsory for a member of a community which does not profess such religion.
Statute	(6) No person under the age of eighteen shall be free to change his religious persuasion without the permission of his parent or guardian.
Statute	(7) Conversion from one religion to another brought about by coercion, undue influence or the offering of material inducement is prohibited and is punishable by the law of the Union.
Statute	(8) It shall be the duty  of every unit to provide, in the public educational system in towns and districts in which a considerable proportion of citizens of other than the language of the unit are residents, adequate facilities for ensuring that in the primary schools the instruction shall be given to the children of such citizens through the medium of their own language.
Statute	Nothing in this clause shall be deemed to prevent the unit from making the teaching of the national language in the variant and script of the choice of the pupil obligatory in the schools.
RatioOfTheDecision	(9) No legislation providing <ORG>-aid for schools shall discriminate against schools under the management of minorities whether based on religion or language.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every monument of artistic or historic interest or place of natural interest throughout the <ORG> is guaranteed immunity from spoliation, destruction, removal, disposal or export except under a law of the <ORG>, and shall be preserved and maintained according to the law or the <ORG>."
RatioOfTheDecision	This shows that the intention was to  give to the minorities the right to form, control and administer, amongst others educational institutions, at their own expense.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also to be noted that Article (9) is similar to what is now Article 30(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	As the educational institutions were to be at their own expense, <ORG> aid was not made compulsory.
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
RatioOfTheDecision	At this stage it must be remembered that the minorities to whom rights were being given, were not minorities who were socially and/or economically backward.
RatioOfTheDecision	There was no fear that economically, these religious or linguistic minorities, would not be able to establish and administer educational institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	There was also no fear that, in educational Institutions established for the benefit of all citizens, the children of these religious or linguistic minorities would not be able to compete.
RatioOfTheDecision	These rights were being conferred only to ensure that the majority, who due to their numbers would be politically powerful, did not prevent the minorities from establishing and administering their own educational  institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In so providing, the basic feature of the Constitution, namely, secularism and equality for all citizens, whether majority or minority was being kept in mind.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this behalf, an extract from <NAME>'s case is very relevant.
RatioOfTheDecision	It reads as follows:  "It may be recalled that as regards the minorities <ORG> had recognised in their report to <ORG> on May 6, 1946, only three main communities: general, Muslims and Sikhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	General community included all those who were non-Muslims or non-Sikhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> had recommended an Advisory Committee to be set up by <ORG> which was to frame the rights of citizens, minorities, tribals and excluded areas.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Cabinet <ORG> statement had actually provided for the cession of sovereignty to the Indian people subject only to two matters which were: (1) willingness to conclude a treaty with His Majesty's Government to cover matters arising out of transfer of power and (2) adequate provisions for the protection of  the minorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Pursuant to the above and Paras 5 and 6 of the Objectives Resolution <ORG> set up <ORG> on January 24, 1947.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> was to consist of representatives of muslims, the depressed classes or the scheduled castes, the Sikhs, Christians, Parsis, Anglo-Indians, tribals and excluded areas besides the Hindus.
RatioOfTheDecision	As a historical fact it is safe to say that at a meeting held on May 11, 1949, a resolution for the abolition of all reservations for minorities other than the scheduled castes found whole- hearted support from an overwhelming majority of the members of the Advisory <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as the schedule castes were concerned it was felt that their peculiar position would necessitate special reservation for them for a period of ten years.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would not be wrong to say that the separate representation of minorities which had been the feature of the previous <ORG> and which had witnesses so much of communal tension and strife was given up in favour of joi nt electorates in consideration of the guarantee of fundamental rights and minorities' rights which it was decided to incorporate into the new Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Objectives Resolution can be taken into account as a historical fact which moulded its nature and character.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since the language of the Preamble was taken from the resolution itself the declaration in the Preamble that India would be a Sovereign Democratic Republic which would secure to all its citizens justice, liberty and equality was implemented in Parts III and IV and other provisions of Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	These formed not only the essential features of the Constitution but also the fundamental conditions upon and the basis on which the various groups and interest adopted the Constitution as the Preamble hoped to create one unified integrated community.
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)"  17.
Fact	The draft Articles were then forwarded by <ORG> to <ORG>.
Fact	They were also forwarded to another <ORG> known as the <ORG> of M inorities.
Fact	These two Committees thereafter revised the draft and the revised draft was then forwarded to <ORG> for discussion.
Fact	The relevant portion of the revised draft read as follows:  "Rights relating to Religion  13.
Fact	All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience, and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion subject to public order, morality or health and to the other provisions of this Part.
Fact	Explanation 1.
Fact	- The wearing the carrying of kirpans shall be deemed to be included in the profession of the Sikh religion.
RatioOfTheDecision	Explanation 2.
RatioOfTheDecision	- The above rights shall not include any economic, financial, political or other secular activities that may be associated with religious practice.
RatioOfTheDecision	Explanation 3.
Precedent	- The freedom of religious practice guaranteed in this clause shall not debar the <ORG> from enacting laws for the purpose of social welfare and reform and for throwing open Hindu religious institutions of a public character to any class or section of Hindus.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	Every  religious denomination or a section thereof shall have the right to manage its own affairs in matters of religion and, subject to law, to own, acquire and administer property, movable and immovable, and to establish and maintain institutions for religious or charitable purposes.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	No person may be compelled to pay taxes, the proceeds of which are specifically appropriated to further or maintain any particular religion or denomination.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	No person attending any school maintained or receiving aid out of public funds shall be compelled to take part in the religious instruction that may be given in the school or to attend religious worship held in the school or in premises attached thereto.
Precedent	17.
Precedent	Conversion from one religion to another brought about by coercion or undue influence shall not be recognised by law.
Precedent	Cultural and Educational Rights  18.
Precedent	(1) Minorities in every unit shall be protected in respect of their language, script and culture, and no laws or regulations may be enacted that may operate oppr essively or prejudicially in this respect.
Precedent	(2) No minority whether based on religion, community or language shall be discriminated against in regard to the admission into <ORG> educational institutions, nor shall any religious instruction be compulsorily imposed on them.
Precedent	(3)(a).
RatioOfTheDecision	All minorities whether based on religion, community or language shall be free in any unit to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
RatioOfTheDecision	(b) The <ORG> shall not, while providing <ORG> aid to schools, discriminate against schools under the management or minorities whether based on religion, community or language."
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus under Clause 18(3)(a) minorities based on religion, community and language were to be free to establish and administer educational institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Constituent Assembly Debates, of 30th August, 1947, indicate that it was understood and clear that the right to establish and administer educational institutions was to be at their own expense.
Statute	During the Debate on 30th August, 1947, Mr. <NAME> d <NAME> proposed an amendment in Clause 18(2).
Statute	The suggested amendment read as follows:  "Provided that this clause does not apply to state Educational institutions maintained mainly for the benefit of any particular community or section of the people."
Statute	18.
Fact	Similarly Mrs. <NAME> proposed an amendment to the effect that under Clause 18(2) after the words "state" the words "and <ORG>-aided" be inserted.
Fact	To be noted that both Mr. <NAME> and Mrs. <NAME> were, by their proposed amendments, seeking to enhance rights of minorities.
Fact	The discussions which follow these proposed amendments are very illustrative and informative.
Fact	These discussions read as follows: "Mrs. <NAME>: Sir, my amendment is to clause 18(2).
Fact	It reads as follows:-  "That after the word '<ORG>', the words 'and <ORG>-aided' be inserted."
Fact	The purpose of the amendment is that no minority, whether based on community or religion shall be discriminated against in regard to the admission into <ORG>-aided and  <ORG> educational institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Many of the provinces, e.g., U.P., have passed resolutions laying down that no educational institution will forbid the entry of any members of any community merely on the ground that they happened to belong to a particular community - even if that institution is maintained by a donor who has specified that that institution should only cater for members of his particular community.
RatioOfTheDecision	If that institution seeks <ORG> aid, it must allow members of other communities to enter into it.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the olden days, in the Anglo-Indian schools (it was laid down that, though those school were specifically intended for Anglo-Indians, 10 per cent of the seats should be given to Indians.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the latest report adopted by this <ORG>, it is laid down at 40 per cent.
RatioOfTheDecision	I suggest Sir, that if this clause is included without the amendment in the Fundamental Rights, it will be a step backward and many Provinces who have taken a step forward will have to retract their steps.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have many institutions conducted b y very philanthropic people, who have left large sums of money at their disposal.
RatioOfTheDecision	While we welcome such donations, when a principle has been laid down that, if any institution receives <ORG> aid, it cannot discriminate or refuse admission to members of other communities, then it should be followed.
RatioOfTheDecision	We know, Sir, that many a Province has got provincial feelings.
RatioOfTheDecision	If this provision is included as a fundamental right, I suggest that it will be highly detrimental.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Honourable Mover has not told us what was the reason why he specifically excluded <ORG>-aided institutions from this clause.
RatioOfTheDecision	If he had explained it, probably the <ORG> would have been convinced.
RatioOfTheDecision	I hope that all the educationists and other members of this <ORG> will support my amendment (emphasis supplied) Even though Mrs. <NAME> is seeking to give further protection to students of minority community, her speech indicates the principle, accepted by all, that if an institute receives <ORG> aid it cannot discriminate or refuse admission to memb ers of other communities.
Argument	the reply of Mr. <NAME> is as follows:-  Mr. K.M.
Argument	<NAME>: Mr. President, Sir, the scope of this Clause 18(2) is only restricted to this, that where the <ORG> has got an educational institution of its own, no minority shall be discriminated against.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, this does recognise to some extent the principle that the <ORG> cannot own an institution from which a minority is excluded.
RatioOfTheDecision	As a matter of fact, this to some extent embodies the converse proposition over which discussion took place on Clause 16, namely no minority shall be excluded from any school maintained by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	That being so, it secures the purpose which members discussed a few minutes ago.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is the farthest limit to which I think, a fundamental right can go.
RatioOfTheDecision	Regarding <NAME> amendment, I consider that it practically destroys the whole meaning and content of this fundamental right.
RatioOfTheDecision	This minority right is intended to prevent majority control legislatures from favouring their own community to the exclusion of ot her communities.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question therefore is : Is it suggested that the <ORG> should be at liberty to endow schools for minorities?
RulingByPresentCourt	Then it will come to this that the minority will be a favoured section of the public.
RulingByPresentCourt	This destroys the very basis of a fundamental right.
RulingByPresentCourt	I submit that it should rejected.
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied) xxx xxx xxx Then comes Mrs. <NAME>'s amendment.
RatioOfTheDecision	it is wider than the clause itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	As I pointed out, Clauses 16 to 18 are really two different propositions.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is with regard to communities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Through the medium of a fundamental right, not by legislation, not by administrative action this amendment seeks to close down thousands of institutions in this country.
RatioOfTheDecision	I can mention one thing so far as my province is concerned there are several hundreds of <ORG> and several dozens of Muslim Schools.
RatioOfTheDecision	Many of them are run by charities which are exclusively Hindu or Muslim.
RatioOfTheDecision	Still the educational policy of the <ORG> during the <ORG> regime has been that as far as possible no discrimination sh ould be permitted against any pupil by administrative action in these schools.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whenever a case of discrimination is found, the Educational Inspector goes into it; particularly with regard to Harijans it has been drastically done in the Province of Bombay.
Argument	Now if you have a fundamental right like this, a school which has got a thousand students and receives Rs.
Argument	500 by way of grant from <ORG>, becomes a <ORG> aided <ORG>.
Argument	A trust intended for one community maintains the <ORG> and out of Rs.
Argument	50,000 spent for the <ORG> Rs.
Argument	500 only comes from <ORG> as grant.
RatioOfTheDecision	But immediately <ORG> must hold that this right comes into operation as regards this <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now this, as I said, can best be done by legislation in the provinces, through the administrative action of the <ORG> which takes into consideration susceptibilities and sometimes makes allowances for certain conditions.
RatioOfTheDecision	How can you have a Fundamental law about this?
RatioOfTheDecision	How can you divert crores of rupees of trust for some other purpose by a  stroke of the pen?
RatioOfTheDecision	The idea seems to be that by placing these two lines in the constitution everything in this country has to be changed without even consulting the people or without even allowing the legislatures to consider it.
RatioOfTheDecision	I submit that looking into the present conditions it is much better that these things should be done by the normal process of educating the people rather than by putting in a Fundamental Right.
RatioOfTheDecision	This clause is intended to be restrictive that neither the <ORG> nor a unit shall maintain an institution from which minorities are excluded.
RatioOfTheDecision	If we achieve this, this will be a very great advance that we would have made and the <ORG> should be content with this much advance."
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus to be seen that Mr. <NAME> echoed the sentiment so often expressed by Counsel before us i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	that by securing a small amount of aid, the right to administer educational institutions cannot be given up.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was immediately answered as follows:  "Mr. <NAME> : I will not take more than two minutes of the t ime of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	I think there is nothing wrong with the amendment which has been moved by Mrs. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	She neither wants those endowed institutions to be closed, nor their funds to be diverted to purposes for which they were not intended.
RatioOfTheDecision	What she does ask is that the <ORG> being a secular <ORG>, must not ge a party to exclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is open to the institutions which want to restrict admission to particular communities or particular classes, to refuse <ORG> aid and thereby, after they have refused to <ORG> aid, they are free to restrict their admission of the students to any class they like.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> will have no say in the matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	Here the word 'recognize' has not been put in.
RatioOfTheDecision	In Clause 16 we put the all embracing word 'recognize'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore all this trouble arose that we had to refer that to a small <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this clause the position is very clear.
RatioOfTheDecision	And Mr. <NAME>, as a clever lawyer, has tried to cloud this.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is open to the institution which has spent Rs.
Precedent	40,000 from its funds not to receive Rs.
Precedent	50 0 as grant from the <ORG> but it will be open to the <ORG> to declare that as a matter of <ORG> policy exclusiveness must not be accepted and this would apply equally to the majority institutions as well as minority institutions.
Precedent	No institution receiving <ORG> aid should close its door to any other class of persons in India merely because its donor has originally so desired to restrict.
Precedent	They are open to refuse the <ORG> aid and they can have any restriction they like.
Precedent	(emphasis supplied) xxx xxx xxx Pandit <NAME> : Mr. President, I support the amendment moved by Mrs. <NAME>.
Precedent	I followed with great interest Mr. <NAME>'s exposition.
Precedent	His view was that if we accepted the principle that educational institutions maintained by the <ORG> shall be bound to admit boys of all communities, it would be a great gain and that we should not mix up this matter with other matters howsoever important they may be.
Precedent	I appreciate his view point.
Precedent	Nevertheless I think that it is desirable in view of the importance that we  have attached to various provisions accepted by us regarding the development of a feeling of unity in the country that we should today accept the principle that a boy shall be at liberty to join any school whether maintained by the <ORG> or by any private agency which receives aid from <ORG> funds.
Precedent	No school should be allowed to refuse to admit a boy on the score of his religion.
Precedent	This does not mean, Sir, as Mr. <NAME> seems to think, that the Headmaster of any school would be under a compulsion to admit any specified number of boys belonging to any particular community.
Precedent	Take for instance <ORG>.
Precedent	If 200 Hindu boys offer themselves for admission to that School, the Headmaster will be under no obligation to admit all of them.
Precedent	But the boys will not be debarred, from seeking admission to it simply because they happen to be Hindus.
Precedent	The Headmaster will lay down certain principles in order to determine which boys should be admitted.
Precedent	xxx xxx xxx Sir, we have decided not to allow separate representation in  order to create a feeling of oneness throughout the country.
Precedent	We have even disallowed cumulative voting because, as <NAME> truly stated the other day, its acceptance would mean introduction by the backdoor of the dangerous principle of communal electorates which we threw out of the front door.
RatioOfTheDecision	So great being the importance that we attach to the development of a feeling of nationalism, is it not desirable and it is not necessary that our educational institutions which are maintained or aided by the <ORG> should not cater exclusively for boys belonging to any particular religion or community?
RatioOfTheDecision	If it is desirable in the case of adults that a feeling of unity should be created, is it not much more desirable where immature children and boys are concerned that no principle should be accepted which would allow the dissemination, directly or indirectly, of anti-national ideas or feelings?
RatioOfTheDecision	Sir, since the future welfare of every <ORG> depends on education, it is I think very important that we should  today firmly lay down the principle that a school, even though it may be a private school, should be open to the children of all communities if it receives aid from <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This principle will be in accordance with the decisions that we have arrived at on other matters so far.
RatioOfTheDecision	Its non-acceptance will be in conflict with the general view regarding the necessity of unity which we have repeatedly and emphatically expressed in this <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied) These discussions clearly indicate that the main emphasis was on unity and equality.
RatioOfTheDecision	The protection which was being given to the minorities was merely to ensure that the politically strong majority did not prevent the minorities from having educational institutions at their own expense.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is clear that the framers always intended that the principles of secularism and equality were to prevail over even minorities' rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the <ORG> aid was taken then there could be no discrimination or refusal to admit members of other communities.
Precedent	On this basis the am endments moved by Mr. <NAME> and Mrs. <NAME> (which sought to create additional rights in favour of minorities) were rejected.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	The draft was taken sent back to the <ORG>.
Precedent	When it came back to <ORG> the relevant Articles read as follows: "22.
Statute	(1) No religious instruction shall be provided by the <ORG> in any educational institution wholly maintained out of <ORG> funds: Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to an educational institution which is administered by the <ORG> but has been established under any endowment or trust which requires that religious instruction shall be imparted in such institution.
Statute	(2) No person attending any education Institution recognised by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds shall be required to take part in any religious instruction that may be imparted in such institution or to attend any religious worship that may be conducted in such institution or in any premises attached thereto unless such pe rson, or if such person is a minor, his guardian has given his consent thereto.
Statute	(3) Nothing in this article shall prevent any community or denomination from providing religious instruction for pupils of that community or denomination in an educational institution outside its working hours.
Statute	Cultural and educational rights  23.
Statute	(1) Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script and culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same.
Statute	(2) No minority whether based on religion, community or language shall be discriminated against the regard to the admission of any person belonging to such minority into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG>.
Statute	(3)(a) All minorities whether based on religion, community or language shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Statute	(b) The <ORG> shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions, discriminate against any educational institution o n the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion, community or language.
Precedent	20.
Fact	These were discussed in <ORG> on 7th and 8th December, 1948.
Fact	It must be noted that there was a practice to circulate in advance, any proposed amendment, which a Member desired to move.
Argument	The proposed amendment was circulated in advance for sound reasons, namely that every body else would have notice of it and be prepared to express views for or against the proposed amendment.
Argument	On 7th December, 1948 Clause 22 was being considered, Mr. <NAME> proposed as follows: "Shri <NAME> (<ORG> and Berar : General).
Argument	Mr. Vice President, I move- "That in Clause (2) of Article 22 , the words "recognised by the <ORG> or" be deleted."
RatioOfTheDecision	I move this amendment with a view to obtaining some clarification on certain dark corners of these two articles - Articles 22 and 23.
RatioOfTheDecision	I hope that my learned Friend Dr. <NAME> will not, in his reply, merely toe the line of least resistance and say "I oppose  this amendment", but will be good enough to give some reasons why he opposes or rejects my amendment, and I hope he will try his best to throw some light on the obscure corners of this article.
RatioOfTheDecision	If we scan the various clauses of this article carefully and turn a sidelong glance at the next articles too, we will find that there are some inconsistencies or at least an inconsistency.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clause (1) of Article 22 imposes an absolute ban on religious instruction in institutions which are wholly maintained out of <ORG> funds.
Fact	The proviso, however, excludes such institutions as are administered by the <ORG> which have been established under an endowment or trust - that is, under the proviso those institutions which have been established under an endowment or trust and which require, under the conditions of the trust, that religious instruction must be provided in those institutions, about those, when the <ORG> administers then, there will not be any objection to religious instruction.
Fact	Clause (2) lays down that no person  attending an institution recognised by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds shall be required to take part in religious instruction.
Fact	The means, it would not be compulsory.
Fact	I am afraid I will have to turn to Clause 23, Sub-clause (3)  (a) where it is said that all minorities, whether based on religion, community or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Fact	Now, is it intended that the institutions referred to in the subsequent clause which minorities may establish and conduct and administer according to their own choice, is it intended that in these institutions the minorities would not be allowed to provide religious instruction?
RatioOfTheDecision	There may be institutions established by minorities, which insist on students' attendance at religious classes in those institutions and which are otherwise unobjectionable.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no point about <ORG> aid, but I cannot certainly understand why the <ORG> should refuse recognition to those institutions established b y minorities where they insist on compulsory attendance at religious classes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such interference by the <ORG> I feel is unjustified and unnecessary.
RatioOfTheDecision	Besides, this conflicts with the next article to a certain extent.
RatioOfTheDecision	If minorities have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their own choice, is it contended by the Honourable Dr. <NAME> that the <ORG> will say "You can have institutions, but you should not have religious instructions in them if you want our recognition'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Really it beats me how you can reconcile these two points of view in Articles 22 and  23.
RatioOfTheDecision	The minority, as I have already said, may establish such a school or its own pupils and make religious instruction compulsory in that school.
RatioOfTheDecision	If you do not recognise that institution, then certainly that school will not prosper and it will fail at attract pupils.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover, we have guaranteed certain rights to the minorities and, it may be in a Christian School, they may teach the pupils the Bible and in a Muslim school the Koran .
RatioOfTheDecision	If the minorities, Christians and Muslims, can administer those institutions according to their choice and manner, does the <ORG> mean to suggest that the <ORG> shall not recognize such institutions?
RatioOfTheDecision	Sir, to my mind, if you pursue such a course, the promises we have made to the minorities in our country, the promises we have made to the ear we shall have broken to the heart.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore I do not see any point why, in institutions that are maintained and conducted and administered by the minorities for pupils of their own community the <ORG> should refuse to grant recognition, in case religious instruction is compulsory.
RatioOfTheDecision	When once you have allowed them to establish schools according to their choice, it is inconsistent that you should refuse recognition to them on that ground.
RatioOfTheDecision	I hope something will be done to rectify this inconsistency."
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus it is to be seen that <NAME> is referring not just to draft Article 22 but also to draft Article 23(3)(a).
RatioOfTheDecision	He is pointing out that there is an apparent conflict  between these two Articles.
RatioOfTheDecision	Draft Articles 22 and 23(3)  (a) are, with minor changes, what are now Articles 28(3) and 30(1).
Precedent	Dr. <NAME> opposed the amendments proposed by <NAME> for various reasons, one of which is as follows:  "We have accepted the proposition which is embodied in Article 21 , that public funds raised by taxes shall not be utilised for the benefit of any particular community."
Precedent	21.
Precedent	<NAME> then asked for a clarification as follows: "On a point of clarification, what about institutions and schools run by a community or a minority for its own pupils - not a school where all communities are mixed but a school run by the community for its own pupils?"
Precedent	22.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus <NAME> is again emphasising that there could be minority educational institutions run for their own pupils.
Fact	The answer to this, by Dr. <NAME>, is as follows:  The Honourable Dr. B.R.
Fact	<NAME>: If my Friend Mr. <NAME> will read the other article he will see that once an institution, whether maintained by t he community or not, gets a grant, the condition is that it shall keep the school open to all communities, that provision he has not read."
Fact	(emphasis supplied)  23.
Fact	To be noted that in the draft Articles there is no clause which provided that if an institution, whether maintained by the community or not, gets a grant, it shall keep the school open to all communities.
Fact	The next clause which Dr. <NAME> referred to, was the proposed amendment moved by Pandit <NAME>.
Fact	As stated above this proposed amendment had already been circulated to all.
Precedent	It is clear that Dr. <NAME> had already accepted the proposal of Pandit <NAME>.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	On 8th December, 1948, when Pandit <NAME> moved his amendment, the debate read as follows:  "<NAME>: Sir, I beg to move.
Precedent	That for amendment No.
Precedent	687 of the List of amendments, the following be substituted:-  "That for Clause (2) of Article 23 , the following be substituted :- "(2) No citizen shall be denied admission into any ed ucational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds of grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them."
Precedent	and Sub-clauses (a) and (b) of Clause (3) of Article 23 be renumbered and new Article 23-A".
RatioOfTheDecision	Sir, I find there are three points of difference between this amendment and the provisions of the section which it seeks to amend.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first is to put in the words 'no citizen' for the words 'no majority'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly that not only the institutions which are maintained by the <ORG> will be included in it, but also such institutions as are receiving aid out of state funds.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thirdly, we have, instead of the words "religion, community or language", the words, "religion, race, caste, language or any of them".
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, Sir, it is happens that the words "no minority" seeks to differentiate the minority from the majority, whereas you would be pleased to see that in the Chapter the words of the heading are "cultural and educational rights", so that the minority rights as such should  not find any place under this section.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now if we read Clause (2) it would appear as if the minority had been given certain definite rights in this clause, whereas the national interests require that no majority also should be discriminated against in this matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unfortunately, there is in some matters a tendency that the minorities as such possess and are given certain special rights which are denied to the majority.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was the habit of our English masters that they wanted to create discriminations of this sort between the minority and the majority.
Fact	Sometimes the minority said that they were discriminated against and on other occasions the majority felt the same thing.
Fact	This amendment brings the majority and the minority on an equal status.
RatioOfTheDecision	In educational matters, I cannot understand, from the national point of view, how any discrimination can be justified in favour of a minority or a majority.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, what this amendment seeks to do is that the majority and the minority are brought on the same level.
RatioOfTheDecision	Ther e will be no discrimination between any member of the minority or majority in so far as admission to educational institutions are concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	So I should say that this is a charter of the liberties for the student-world of the minority and the majority communities equally.
RatioOfTheDecision	The second change which is amendment seeks to make is in regard to the institutions which will be governed by this provision of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Previously only the educational institutions maintained by the <ORG> were included.
RatioOfTheDecision	This amendment seeks to include such other institutions as are aided by <ORG> funds.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are a very large number of such institutions, and in future, by this amendment the rights of the minority have been broadened and the rights of the majority have been secured.
RatioOfTheDecision	So this is a very healthy amendment and it is a kind of nation-building amendment.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, Sir, the word "community" is sought to be removed from this provision because "community" has no meaning.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it is a fact that the existence of a community is determined by some  common characteristic and all communities are covered by the words religion or language, then "community" as such has no basis.
RatioOfTheDecision	So the word "community" is meaningless and the words substituted are "race or caste".
RatioOfTheDecision	So this provision is so broadened that on the score of caste, race, language, or religion no discrimination can be allowed.
RatioOfTheDecision	My submission is that considering the matter from all the standpoints, this amendment is one which should be accepted unanimously by this <ORG>."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  25.
RatioOfTheDecision	To be noted that the proposed Article 23(2) is now Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	It is being incorporated in Article 23 which also contained what is now Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Pandit <NAME> was proposing this amendment with the clear intention that it should apply to minority educational institutions under, what is now Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	The whole purpose is to further principles of secularism and to see that in <ORG> maintained and <ORG> aided educational institutions there was no distinction between majority or minority  communities.
RatioOfTheDecision	At this stage it must be noted that no contrary view was expressed at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	Dr. <NAME> then replied as follows: "The Honourable Dr. B.R.
Fact	<NAME>: Sir, of the amendments which have been moved to Article 23 , I can accept amendment No.
Fact	26 to amendment No.
Fact	687 by Pandit <NAME>.
Fact	I am also prepared to accept amendment No.
Fact	31 to amendment No.
Precedent	690, also moved by Pandit <NAME>."
Precedent	26.
Fact	The amendment proposed by Pandit <NAME> was unanimously accepted by <ORG>.
Fact	This is how and why, what is now Article 29(2) was framed and incorporated.
Fact	Clearly it was to govern all educational institutions including minority educational institutions under what is now Article 30(1).
Fact	The final resolution is as follows: "Mr.
Fact	Vice-President: The question is:  That for Clause (2) of Articles 23, the following be substituted:- "No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds onl y of religion, race, caste, language or any of them";  and Sub-clause (a) and (B) of Clause (3) of Article 23 be renumbered as new Article 23-A.
Fact	The motion was adopted."
Precedent	27.
Precedent	A reading of the <ORG> debates clearly show that the intention of the framers of the Constitution was that Article 29(2) was to apply to all educational institutions, including minority educational institutions under Article 30.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	This being the historical background and the intention of the framers, the contextual approach must also be one which gives effect to the minority rights but which does not elevate them into a special or privileged class of citizens.
Precedent	The contextual approach must therefore be that minorities have full rights to establish and administer educational institution at their own costs, but if they choose to take <ORG> aid they must then abide by the Constitutional mandate of Article 29(2) and with principles of equality and secularism.
Precedent	29.
Precedent	The same result follows if well settled principles of inte rpretation are applied.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is settled law that if the language of the provision, being considered, is plain and unambiguous the same must be given effect to, irrespective of the consequences that may result or arise.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also settled law that while interpreting provisions of a Statute, if two interpretations are possible, one which leads to no conflict between the various provisions and another which leads to a conflict between the various provisions, then the interpretation which leads to no conflict must always be accepted.
RatioOfTheDecision	As already been seen, the intention of the framers of the Constitution is very clear.
RatioOfTheDecision	The framers unambiguously and unanimously intended that rights given under Article 30(1) could be fully enjoyed so long as the educational institutions were established and administered at their own costs and expense.
RatioOfTheDecision	Once State aid was taken, then principles of equality and secularism, on which our Constitution is based, were to prevail and admission could not be denied to any student on grounds of r eligion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	30.
Precedent	A plain reading of <ORG> 29(2) shows that it applies to "any educational institution" maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds.
Precedent	The words "any educational institution" takes within its ambit an educational institution established under <ORG> 30(1).
Precedent	It is to be remembered that when <ORG> 29(2) [ i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> 23(2)] was framed it was part of the same <ORG> which contained what is now <ORG> 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus it was clearly meant to apply to <ORG> 30(1) as well.
Statute	Significantly <ORG> 30 nowhere provides that the provisions of <ORG> 29(2) would not apply to it.
Statute	<ORG> 30(1) does not exclude the applicability of the provisions of <ORG> 29(2) to educational institutions established under it.
RatioOfTheDecision	A plain reading of the two <ORG>s indicates that the rights given under <ORG> 30(1) can be fully exercised so long as no aid is taken from the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is for this reason that <ORG> 30 does not make it compulsory for a minority educational i nstitution to take aid or for the <ORG> to give it.
Precedent	All that Article 30(2) provides is that the <ORG> in granting aid to educational institutions shall not discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority.
Precedent	In cases where the <ORG> gives aid to educational institutions the <ORG> would be bound by the Constitutional mandate of Article 29(2) to ensure that no citizen is denied admission into the educational institution on grounds of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	By so insisting the <ORG> would not be discriminating against a minority educational institution.
Precedent	It would only be performing the obligation cast upon it by the Constitution of India.
Precedent	31.
Precedent	This interpretation is also supported by the wording of Article 30(2).
Precedent	Article 30(2) merely provides that the <ORG> shall not discriminate on the ground that it is under the management of a minority.
Precedent	To be noted that Article 30(2) does not provide that <ORG> shall not in granting aid impose  any condition which would restrict or abridge the rights guaranteed under Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	The framers were aware that when <ORG> aid was taken the principles of equality and secularism, which are the basis of our Constitution, would have to prevail.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clearly the framers of the Constitution considered the principle of equality and secularism to be more important than the rights under Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus in Article 30(2) it was advisedly not provided that rights under Article 30(1) could not be restricted or abridged whilst granting aid.
RatioOfTheDecision	A plain reading of Article 30(2) shows that the framers of the Constitution envisaged that certain rights would get restricted and/or abridged when a minority educational institute chose to receive aid.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must also be noted that when property rights were deleted [by deletion of Article 19(1)(f)] the framers of the Constitution realised that rights under Article 30(1) would get restricted or abridged unless specifically protected.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus Article 30(1A) was introduced.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 30(1A  ), unlike Article 30(2 ), specifically provides the acquisition of property of a minority educational institute must be in a manner which does not restrict or abrogate the rights under Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	When the framers so intended they have specifically so provided.
RatioOfTheDecision	Significantly even after Judgments of this Court (set out hereafter) which laid down that Article 29(2) applied to Article 30(1 ), the framers have not amended Article 30 to provide to the contrary.
Precedent	32.
Argument	Even though a plain reading of Articles 29(2) and Article 30 leads to no clash between the two Articles, it has been submitted by counsel on behalf of minorities that the right to establish and administer educational institutions be considered an absolute right and that by giving aid the <ORG> cannot impose conditions which would restrict or abrogate and/or abridge, in any manner, the right under Article 30(1).
Argument	It has been submitted that the right to administer educational institutions includes the right to admit students.
Argument	It has been submitted tha t the minorities, whether based on religion or language, have a right to admit students of their community.
Argument	It is submitted that this right is not taken away or abridged because <ORG> aid is taken.
Argument	It is submitted that notwithstanding the plain language of Articles 29(2) and 30 it must be held that the rights under Article 30(1) prevail over Article 29(2).
Precedent	33.
Precedent	To accept such an argument one would have to read into Article 30(2) words to the effect "state cannot in granting aid lay down conditions which would restrict, abridge or abrogate rights under Article 30(1)" or to read into Article 30(1) words to the effect "notwithstanding the provisions of Article 29(2)".
RatioOfTheDecision	Purposely no such words are used.
RatioOfTheDecision	A clash is sought to be created between Article 30(1) and 29(2) when no such clash exists.
RatioOfTheDecision	The interpretation sought to be given is on presumption that rights under Article 30(1) are absolute.
RatioOfTheDecision	As is set out in greater detail hereafter, every single authority of this <ORG>, for the past over 50 years, has held that  the rights under Article 30(1) are subject to restrictions.
RatioOfTheDecision	All counsel appearing for the minority educational institutions conceded that rights under Article 30(1) are subject to general secular laws of the country.
RatioOfTheDecision	If rights under Article 30(1) are subject to other laws of the country it can hardly be argued that they are not subject to a constitutional provision.
RatioOfTheDecision	34.
RatioOfTheDecision	The interpretation sought to be placed not only creates a clash between Articles 29(2) and 30 but also between Article 30 and Article 15(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 15(1) prohibits the <ORG> from discriminating against citizens on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the <ORG> were to give aid to a minority educational institution which only admits students of its community then it would be discriminating against other citizens who cannot get admission to such institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such an interpretation would also lead to clash between Article 30 and Article 28(3).
RatioOfTheDecision	There may be a religious minority educational institute se t up to teach their own religion.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such an institute may, if it is unaided, only admit students who are willing to say their prayers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Yet once aid is taken such an institution cannot compel any student to take part in religious instructions unless the student or his parent consents.
RatioOfTheDecision	If Article 30(1) were to be read in a manner which permits <ORG> aided minority educational institutions to admit students as per their choice, then they could refuse to admit students who do not agree to take part in religious instructions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The prohibition prescribed in Article 28(2) could then be rendered superfluous and/or nugatory.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from rendering Article 28(2) nugatory such an interpretation would set up a very dangerous trend.
RatioOfTheDecision	All minority educational institutions would then refuse to admit students who do not agree to take part in religious instructions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In all fairness to all the counsels appearing for minority educational institutions, it must be stated that not a single counsel argued that Article 28(2) would not gov ern Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	All counsel fairly conceded that Article 30(1) would be governed by Article 28(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	One fails to understand how Article 30(1) can be held to be subject to Article 28(2) but not subject to Article 29(2).
Precedent	35.
Precedent	Accepting such an interpretation would also lead to an anomalous situation.
Precedent	As is being held all citizens have a fundamental right to establish and carry on an educational institution under Article 19(1)(g).
Precedent	An educational institution can also be established and maintained under Article 26(a).
Precedent	An educational institution could also be established under Article 29(1) for purposes of conserving a distinct language, script or culture.
Precedent	All such educational institutions would be governed by Article 29(2).
Precedent	Thus if a religious educational institution is established under Article 26(a) it would on receipt of <ORG> aid have to comply with Article 29(2).
Precedent	Similarly an educational institute established for conserving a distinct language, script or culture would, if it is receive <ORG> aid, have to c omply with Article 29(2).
Precedent	Such institution would also have been established for benefit of their own community or language or script or culture.
Precedent	If such educational institutions have to comply with Article 29(2) it would be anomalous to say that a religion or linguistic educational institution, merely because it is set up by a minority need not comply with Article 29(2).
Precedent	The anomaly would be greater because an educational institute set up under Article 26(a) would be for teaching religion and an educational institute set up under Article 29(1) would be for conserving a distinct language.
Precedent	On the other hand an educational institute set up under Article 30(1) may be to give general secular education.
Precedent	It would be anomalous to say that an educational institute set up to teach religion or to conserve a distinct language, script or culture has to comply with Article 29(2) but an educational institute set up to give general secular education does not have to comply with Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	It must again be remembered that  Article 30 was not framed to create a special or privileged class of citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was framed only for purposes of ensuring that the politically powerful majority did not prevent the minority from having their educational institute.
RatioOfTheDecision	We cannot give to Article 30(1) a meaning which would result in making the minorities, whether religious or linguistic, a special or privileged class of citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	We should give to Article 30(1) a meaning which would further the basic and overriding principles of our Constitution viz.
RatioOfTheDecision	equality and secularism.
Precedent	The interpretation must not be one which would create a further divide between citizen and citizen.
Precedent	36.
Precedent	It has also been submitted that a minority educational institute would have been established only for the purpose of giving education to students of that particular religious or linguistic community.
Precedent	It has been submitted that if Article 29(2) were to apply then the very basis of establishing such an educational institution would disappear once <ORG> aid is taken.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whilst c onsidering such a submission one must keep in mind that the desire to establish educational or other institutions for the benefit of students of their own community would be there not only in minority communities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a desire would be there in all citizens and communities, whether majority or minority.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the majority communities, whether religious or linguistic, can establish and administer educational institutions for their own community at their own costs why should the position be different for minorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	If an educational institute established by a majority community for members of that community only, takes <ORG> aid, it would then lose the right to admit only students of its own community.
RatioOfTheDecision	it would have to comply with the Constitutional mandate of Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	The position is no different for an educational institute established by a minority.
RatioOfTheDecision	The basic feature of our Constitution is equality and secularism.
RatioOfTheDecision	It follows that the minority cannot be a more privileged class or section of citizen.
RatioOfTheDecision	At  the cost of repetition it is again emphasised that Article 30 does not deal with minorities who are economically or socially backward.
RatioOfTheDecision	These are not communities whose children are not capable of competing on merit, e.g.
RatioOfTheDecision	a Tamilian in Tamil competes with others and gets admission on merit.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even when he/she shifts to Maharashtra he/she continues to be able to compete openly and get admission on merit.
RatioOfTheDecision	Merely because a Tamilian shifts to Maharashtra or some other State does not mean that Tamilian becomes a citizen entitled to special privilege or rights not available to other citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was not the purpose or object of Article 30.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 30 was framed only to ensure that the Maharashtrians, by reason of their being politically powerful, do not prevent the Tamilian from establishing an educational institution at their own cost.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 20 merely protects the right of the minority to establish and administer an educational institution, i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	to have the same rights as those enjoyed by majority.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 30 giv es no right to receive <ORG> aid.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is for the institution to decide whether it wants to received aid.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it decides to take <ORG> aid then Article 30(2) merely provides that the <ORG> will not discriminate against it.
RatioOfTheDecision	When <ORG>, whilst giving aid, asks the minority educational institute to comply with a constitutional mandate, it can hardly be said that the <ORG> is discriminating against that institute.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> is bound to ensure that all educational institutes, whether majority or minority, comply with the constitutional mandate.
RatioOfTheDecision	37.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another respect to be kept in mind is that in practical terms, throwing open admission to all, does not affect rights under Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	If the educational institution is for purposes of teaching the religion or language of the concerned minority, then even though admission is thrown open to all very few students of other communities will take admission in such an educational institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the educational institution is giving general secular education, then the minor ity character of that institution does not get affected by having a majority of students from other communities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even though the majority of students may be from other communities the institution will still be under the management of the minority.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further if the educational institution is a school, then the management will, in spite of Article 29(2 ), still be able to take a sizable number of students from their own community into the school.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 29(2) precludes reservations on grounds of religion, race, caste or language.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it does not preclude giving of preference, if everything else is equal.
RatioOfTheDecision	Admission into schools generally are by interview.
RatioOfTheDecision	At this stage there is no common entrance test which determines merit.
RatioOfTheDecision	Undoubtedly children of the minority communities, contemplated by Article 30(1 ), would be as bright or capable as children of other communities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus whilst admitting at this stage preference can always be given to members of their own community so long as some students of other communities  are also admitted and denial is not on basis of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus for admissions in schools, Article 29(2) will pose no difficulty to minority institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, Article 29(2) will require, if <ORG> aid is taken, that admissions into college, either under graduate or post graduate and admission into professional course, be not denied to any citizen on grounds of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	This would mean that admissions must be on merit from the common entrance test prescribed by the <ORG> or <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Here also if two students have equal merit, preference can be given to a student of their own community.
RatioOfTheDecision	Also Article 29(2) does not preclude minority (or even other educational institutions) admitting or denying admission on grounds other than religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus e.g.
RatioOfTheDecision	preferential admission could be given to those students who are willing to serve the community or work in a particular region, for a particular period  of time after passing out.
RatioOfTheDecision	Also in such cases marks not exceeding 15% can be allotted for interviews.
RatioOfTheDecision	This will ensure that a sufficient number of students of their own community are admitted.
RatioOfTheDecision	More importantly there is no reason to believe that students of these minority communities will not be able to compete on merit.
RatioOfTheDecision	A sizable number will be available on merit also.
RatioOfTheDecision	38.
RatioOfTheDecision	Most importantly we are interpreting the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the language of Articles 29(2) and 30 is clear and unambiguous the <ORG> has to give effect to it, irrespective of the consequences.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is all the more necessary as the same is in consonance with the intention of the framers.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> cannot give an interpretation which creates a clash where none exits.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> cannot add words which the framers purposely omitted to use/add.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG>s cannot give an interpretation, not supported by a plain reading, on considerations, such as minority educational institutions not being able to admit their own students.
RatioOfTheDecision	To be remembered that there is no com pulsion to receive <ORG> aid.
Precedent	As was mentioned during the Constituent Assembly Debates the management can refuse to take aid.
Precedent	But if they choose to take <ORG> aid, then even a minority educational institution must abide by the Constitutional mandate of Article 29(2) just as they have to comply with the Constitutional mandate of Article 28(2) and comply with general secular laws of the country.
Precedent	39.
Precedent	Thus looked at either from the historical point of view and/or the intention of the framers and/or from the contextual viewpoint and/or from principles of interpretation it is clear that Article 29(2) fully applies to Article 30.
Precedent	If a minority educational institute chooses to take <ORG> aid, it cannot then refuse to admit students on grounds of religion, race, case, language or any of them.
Precedent	40.
Precedent	Now let us see whether the principles of "stare decisis" require us to take a different view.
Precedent	A large number of authorities have been cited and one has to consider these authorities.
Precedent	41.
Precedent	The first case, which was decided a s far back as on 9th April, 1951, was the case of <CITATION_149321> .
Precedent	It is reported in (1951) SCR 525.
Precedent	In this case the <ORG> of Madras was maintaining <ORG>.
Precedent	In those colleges, for many years before the commencement of the Constitution, the seats used to be filled up in a proportion, set forth in what was called "the Communal G.O.".
Precedent	The allocation of seats was as follows:     Anglo-Indians and Indian Muslims 1"  After the Constitution was framed a Writ Petition under Article 226 came to be filed by <NAME> and one another in <ORG>.
Argument	She complained that this Communal G. O. affected her fundamental rights, inter alia, under Article 29(2).
Argument	On behalf of the <ORG> it was argued that there was no discrimination and no infringement of fundamental rights.
Argument	It was argued that it was the duty of the <ORG> to take care of and promote educational and economic interest of the weaker section of the people.
Argument	It was argued that giving preferences and/or reser vations did not violate Article 29(2).
Precedent	This argument was repelled and it was held as follows:  "It will be noticed that while Clause (1) protects the language, script or culture of a section of the citizens, Clause (2) guarantees the fundamental right of an individual citizen.
Precedent	The right to get admission into any educational institution of the kind mentioned in Clause (2) is a right which an individual citizen has as a citizen and not as a member of any community or class of citizens.
Precedent	This right is not to be denied to the citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	If a citizen who seeks admission into any such educational institution has not the requisite academic qualifications and is denied admission on that ground, he certainly cannot be heard to complain of an infraction of his fundamental right under this article.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, on the other hand, if he has the academic qualifications but is refused admission only on ground of religion, race, caste, language or any of them, then ther e is a clear breach of his fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx  Take the case of the petitioner <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not disputed that he secured a much larger number of marks than the marks secured by many of the Non-Brahmin candidates and yet the Non-Brahmin candidates who secured less number of marks will be admitted into six out of every 14 seats but the petitioner <NAME> will not be admitted into any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is the reason for this denial of admission except that he is a Brahmin and not a Non-Brahmin.
RatioOfTheDecision	He may have secured higher marks than the Anglo-Indian and Indian Christians or Muslim candidates but nevertheless, he cannot get any of the seats reserved for the last mentioned communities for no fault of his except that he is a Brahmin and not a member of the aforesaid communities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such denial of admission cannot but be regarded as made on ground only of his caste.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is argued that the petitioners are not denied admission only because they are Brahmins but for a variety of reasons, e.g.,  (a) they are Brahmins, (b) Brahmins have an allotment of only two seats out of 14 and  (c) the two seats have already been filled up by more meritorious Brahmin candidates.
RatioOfTheDecision	This may be true so far as these two seats reserved for the Brahmin are concerned but this line of argument can have no force when we come to consider the seats reserved for candidates of other communities, for so far as those seats are concerned, the petitioners are denied admission into any of them not on any ground other than the sole ground of their being Brahmins and not being members of the community for whom these reservations have been made.
RatioOfTheDecision	The classification in <ORG> proceeds on the basis of the religion, race and caste.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our view, the classification made in <ORG> is opposed to the Constitution and constitutes a clear violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed to the citizen under Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	In this view of the matter, we do not find it necessary to consider the effect of Articles 14 or 15 on th e specific articles discussed above."
Precedent	Thus as far back as in 1951 it has been held that Article 29(2) does not permit reservation in favour of any caste, community or class of people.
Precedent	An argument based on the word "only" in Article 29(2 ), to the effect that admitting students of their own community did not amount to refusing admission on grounds of religion, race, caste, language or any of them was rejected.
Precedent	Undoubtedly, this was a case pertaining to educational institutions maintained by the <ORG>.
Precedent	But the interpretation of Article 29(2) would remain the same even in respect of "educational institutions aided by the <ORG>".
Precedent	In all such institutions there can be no reservations based on religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	The term "any educational Institution" in Article 29(2) would also include a minority educational institution under Article 30.
Precedent	Thus the interpretation of Article 29(2) would remain the same even in respect of a minority educational institution under Article 30(1).
Precedent	42.
Precedent	In Cha <NAME> case the reservations were not just for economically or socially backward communities.
Precedent	There were reservations for Anglo Indians, Indian Christians, Muslims, Brahmins and Non-Brahmins.
Precedent	After this Court struck down the reservation the framers of the Constitution amended Article 15 by adding Article 15(4) which reads as follows: "15(4).
Precedent	Nothing in this article or in Clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the <ORG> from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes."
Precedent	Thus when the framers of the Constitution did not want Article 29(2) to apply they have specially so provided.
Precedent	Significantly no such amendment was made in Article 30(1) even though reservations in favour of minority communities was also held to be violative of Article 29(2).
Precedent	43.
Precedent	In the case of the <CITATION_1964375> .
Precedent	reported in  an Anglo-Indian School, called <ORG> at Deolali, received aid from t he <ORG> of Bombay.
Precedent	The <ORG> of Bombay issued a circular order on 6th January, 1954 which enjoined that no primary or secondary school could admit to a class where English is used as the medium of instruction, any pupil other than the pupil whose mother tongue was English.
Precedent	This was challenged in a Writ Petition under Article 226 in <ORG>.
Precedent	The Petition having been allowed, the <ORG> filed an Appeal to this Court.
Precedent	This Court held as follows: "Assuming, however, that under the impugned order a section of citizens, other than Anglo-Indian and citizens of non-Asiatic descent, whose language is English, may also get admission, even then citizens, whose language is not English, are certainly debarred by the order from admission to a School where English is used as a medium of instruction in all the classes.
Precedent	Article 29(2) ex facie puts no limitation or qualification on the expression "citizen".
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the construction sought to be put upon Clause 5 does not apparently help the learned Attorney -General, for even on that construction the order will contravene the provisions of Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Attorney-General then falls back upon two contentions to avoid the applicability of Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	In the first place he contends that Article 29(2) does not confer any fundamental right on all citizens generally but guarantees the rights of citizens of minority groups by providing that they must not be denied admission to educational institutions maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of the <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them and he refers us to the marginal note to the article.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is certainly a new contention put forward before us for the first time.
RatioOfTheDecision	It does not appear to have been specifically taken in the affidavits in opposition filed in <ORG> and there is not indication in the judgment under appeal that it was advanced in this form before <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nor was this point specifically made a ground of appeal in the petition for lea ve to appeal to this Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from this, the contention appears to us to be devoid of merit.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 29(1) gives protection to any section of the citizens having a distinct language, script or culture by guaranteeing their right to conserve the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 30(1) secures to all minorities, whether based on religion or language, the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now suppose the <ORG> maintains an educational institution to help conserving the distinct language, script or culture of a section of the citizens or makes grants in aid to an educational institution established by a minority community based on religion or language to conserve their distinct language, script or culture, who can claim the protection of Article 29(2) in the matter of admission into any such institution?
RatioOfTheDecision	Surely the citizens of the very section whose language, script or culture is sought to be conserved by the institution or the citizens who belong to the very minority group which has est ablished and is administering the institution, do not need any protection against themselves and therefore Article 29(2) is not designed for the protection of this section or this minority.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nor do we see any reason to limit Article 29(2) to citizens belonging to a minority group other than the section or the minorities referred to in Article 29(1) or Article 30(1 ), for the citizens, who do no belong to any minority group, may quite conceivably need this protection just as much as the citizens of such other minority groups.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it is urged that the citizens of the majority group are amply protected by Article 15 and do not require the protection of Article 29(2 ), then there are several obvious answers to that argument.
Precedent	The language of Article 29(2) is wide and unqualified and may well cover all citizens whether they belong to the majority or minority group.
Precedent	Article 15 protects all citizens against the <ORG> whereas the protection of Article 29(2) extends against the <ORG> or any body who denies the right conf erred by it.
Precedent	Further Article 15 protects all citizens against discrimination generally but Article 29(2) is a protection against a particular species of wrong namely denial of admission into educational institutions of the specified kind.
Precedent	In the next place Article 15 (SIC) quite general and wide in its terms and applies to all citizens, whether they belong to the majority or minority groups, and gives protection to all the citizens against discrimination by the <ORG> on certain specific grounds.
Precedent	Article 29(2) confers a special right on citizens for admission into educational institutions maintained or aided by the <ORG>.
Precedent	To limit this right only to citizens belonging to minority groups will be to provide a double protection for such citizens and to hold that the citizens of the majority group have no special educational rights in the nature of a right to be admitted into an educational institution for the maintenance of which they make contributions by way of taxes.
RatioOfTheDecision	We see no cogent reason for such discrimina tion.
RatioOfTheDecision	The heading under which articles 29 and 30 are grouped together -- namely "Cultural and Educational Rights" -- is quite general and does not in terms contemplate such differentiation.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the fact that the institution is maintained or aided out of <ORG> funds is the basis of this guaranteed right then all citizens, Irrespective of whether they belong to the majority or minority groups, are alike entitled to the protection of this fundamental right.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of all these considerations the marginal note alone, on which the Attorney-General relies, cannot be read as controlling the plain meaning of the language in which Article 29(2) has been couched.
Precedent	Indeed in <CITATION_149321> [(1951) SCR 525], this <ORG> has already held as follows: "It will be noticed that while Clause (1) protects the language, script or culture or a section of the citizens, Clause (2) guarantees the fundamental right of an individual citizen.
Precedent	The right to get admission into any educational institution of the kind mentioned in Clause ( 2) is a right which an individual citizen has as a citizen and not as a member of any community or class of citizens."
Precedent	In our judgment this part of the contention of the learned Attorney-General cannot be sustained."
Precedent	(emphasis supplied) In this case it was also argued that the word "only" in Article 29(2) had to be given some meaning and that the circular order did not deny citizens admission only on ground of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	It was submitted that the object of the circular order was to secure advancement of Hindi which was ultimately to be the National language.
Precedent	It was submitted that thus there was no denial "only" on the ground of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	It was submitted that the denial was for the purposes of promoting the advancement of the national language and to facilitate imparting of education through the medium of the pupils mother tongue.
Precedent	this argument was repelled in the following terms: "Granting that the object of the impugned order before  us was what is claimed for it by the learned Attorney-General, the question still remains as to how that object has been sought to be achieved.
RatioOfTheDecision	Obviously that is sought to be done by denying to all pupils, whose mother tongue is not English, admission into any School where the medium of instruction is English.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whatever the object, the immediate ground and direct cause for the denial is that the mother tongue of the pupil is not English.
RatioOfTheDecision	Adapting the language of Lord <NAME>, it may be said that the laudable object of the impugned order does not obviate the prohibition of Article 29(2) because the effect of the order involved an infringement of this fundamental right, and that effect is brought about by denying admission only on the ground of language.
RatioOfTheDecision	The same principle is implicit in the decision of this <ORG> in <CITATION_149321> [(1951) SCR 525].
RatioOfTheDecision	There also the object of the impugned communal G.O.
RatioOfTheDecision	was to advance the interest of educationally backward classes of citizens but, that object notwithstanding , this <ORG> struck down the order as unconstitutional because the modus operandi to achieve that object was directly based only on one of the forbidden grounds specified in the article.
Precedent	In our opinion the impugned order offends against the fundamental right guaranteed to all citizens by Article 29(2)."
Precedent	It may be mentioned, even though not relevant for the purposes of this judgment, that in this case it has also been submitted that the rights under Article 30(1) are only for the purposes of conserving language, script or culture as set out in Article 29(1).
Precedent	This argument was also repelled by this <ORG>.
Precedent	44.
Precedent	Thus, as far back in 1955, <ORG> of this <ORG> has held that Article 29(2) is applicable to Article 30.
Precedent	It has been held that even in a minority educational institution all citizens of India are entitled to admission.
Precedent	It has been held that a citizen cannot be denied admission in a minority educational institution on ground "only" of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	To be no ted that one of the petitions was from the Gujarati Hindu community and she was seeking admission into an Anglo-Indian School.
Precedent	Her right to be admitted was upheld.
Precedent	It has been categorically held that Article 29(2) applied to an Article 30 educational institute.
Precedent	The framers of the Constitution did not and have not amended the Constitution to provide otherwise.
Precedent	45.
Argument	In Re The Kerala Education Bill, 1957 reported in (1959) SCR 995, the President of India made a Reference under Article 143(1) of the Constitution of India for obtaining opinion of this Court upon certain questions relating to the constitutional validity of some of the provisions of the Kerala Education Bill which had been passed by <ORG>, but had been reserved by the Governor for consideration of the President of India.
Argument	The questions which were referred to this Court for consideration were as follows:  "(1) Does Sub-clause (5) of Clause 3 of the Kerala Education Bill, read with Clause 36 thereof, or any of the provisions o f the said sub-clause, offend Article 14 of the Constitution in any particulars or to any extent?
Argument	(2) Do Sub-clause (5) of Clause 3, Sub-clause (3) of Clause 8 and Clauses 9 to 13 of Kerala Education Bill, or any provision thereof, offend Clause (1) of Article 30 of the Constitution in any particulars or to any extent.
Precedent	(3) Does Clause 15 of the Kerala Education Bill, or any provisions thereof, offend Article 14 of the Constitution in any particulars or to any extent?
Precedent	(4) Does Clause 33 of the Kerala Education Bill, or any provisions thereof, offend Article 226 of the Constitution in any particulars or to any extent?"
Precedent	46.
RatioOfTheDecision	Only question No.2 is relevant for our purposes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whilst answering question No.2 this <ORG>, inter alia, observed as follows: "Re.
RatioOfTheDecision	Question 2: Articles 29 and 30 are set out in Part III of our Constitution which guarantees our fundamental rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are grouped together under the sub-head "Cultural and Educational Rights".
RatioOfTheDecision	The text and the marginal notes of both the Articles show that their  purpose is to confer those fundamental rights on certain sections of the community which constitute minority communities.
Precedent	Under Clause (1) Article 29 and section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own has the right to conserve the same.
Precedent	It is obvious that a minority community can effectively conserve its language, script or culture by and though educational institutions and, therefore, the right to establish and maintain educational institutions of its choice is a necessary concomitant to the right to conserve its distinctive language, script or culture and that is what is conferred on all minorities by Article 30(1) which has hereinbefore been quoted in full.
Precedent	This right, however, is subject to Clause 2 of Article 29 which provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any  of them.
Precedent	xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx  The second proviso imposes the condition that at least 40 per cent of the annual admissions must be made available to the members of communities other than the Anglo- Indian community.
Precedent	Likewise Article 29(2) provides, inter alia, that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
Precedent	These are the only constitutional limitations to the right of the Anglo-Indian educational institutions to receive aid.
Precedent	Learned counsel appearing for two Anglo-Indian schools contends that the <ORG> of Kerala is bound to implement the provisions of Article 337.
Precedent	Indeed it is stated in the statement of case filed by the <ORG> of Kerala that all Christian schools are aided by that <ORG> and, therefore, the Anglo-Indian schools, being also Chiristian schools, have been so far getting from the <ORG> of Kerala the grant that they are entitled to under Article 337.
Precedent	Their grievance is  that by introducing this Bill the <ORG> of Kerala is now seeking to impose besides the constitutional limitations mentioned in the second proviso to Article 337 and Article 29(2 ), further and more onerous conditions on this grant to the Anglo-Indian educational institutions although their constitutional right to such grant still subsist."
Precedent	(emphasis supplied)  47.
Precedent	In this case it was argued on behalf of the <ORG> that as the minority instate received <ORG> aid it was bound, by virtue of Article 29(2 ), to admit students of all communities and thus did not retain its minority character.
Precedent	That Article 29(2) applied to a minority educational institute was not denied.
Precedent	The argument that, it lost its minority character because it admitted students of other communities, was repelled in the following terms.
Precedent	"By admitting a non-member into it the minority institution does not shed its character and cease to be a minority institution.
Precedent	Indeed the object of conservation of the distinct language, script and culture of a  minority may be better served by propagating the same amongst non- members of the particular minority community.
Precedent	In our opinion, it is not possible to read this condition into Article 30(1) of the Constitution."
Precedent	Thus even in this case it has been accepted and held that Article 26(2) applies to minority educational institutions established under Article 30.
Precedent	It has been held that merely because students of other communities are admitted, the institute does not lose its minority character.
Precedent	In this case it was also held that <ORG> can prescribe reasonable regulations.
Precedent	In this case regulations which provided for qualifications of teachers and which provided for <ORG> Public Service Commission to select teachers in aide schools were upheld.
Precedent	Thus even in this case it is accepted that Article 29(2) would govern Article 30(1).
Precedent	48.
Precedent	<CITATION_751632> , the petitioners belonged to <ORG>.
Precedent	They maintained educational institutions primarily for the benefit of the Christian community.
Precedent	Admitted ly these institutions did not receive <ORG> aid.
Precedent	Therefore, the question of Article 29(2) and its applicability to Article 30 did not arise.
Precedent	On the contrary (as is set out on page 840 of the Report) it was an admitted position that these institutions did not deny admissions to students belonging to other communities.
Precedent	<ORG> issued an order directing all private training colleges to reserve 60% of the seats for trainee teachers of the schools maintained by the Board.
Precedent	It was held that this Order violated rights under Article 30.
Precedent	All observations made in this case are in this context.
Precedent	They cannot be drawn out of context to hold that even where a minority institute receives aid the Constitutional mandate of Article 29(2) would not apply.
Precedent	In this case also it is held that the rights under Article 30(1) are subject to reasonable restrictions and regulations.
Precedent	It was held that restrictions in the interest of efficiency, discipline, health, sanitation, public order etc.
Precedent	could be imposed.
Precedent	49.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATI ON_833521> , the petitioners maintained <ORG> which was affiliate to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	With effect form 1st March, 1962 Section 48-A was introduced.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under this Section <ORG> was established for affiliated colleges.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sub-clause (e) of Section 48-A provided that appointments, dismissals, removals, termination of service or deduction in rank teachers of an affiliated college should be made by the Governing body of the college on the recommendation of the <ORG>.
Fact	Further, Sub-clause (11) provided that all disciplinary actions could be taken only in consultation with the <ORG>.
Fact	The petitioners challenged the virus of the provision and claimed that it affected their rights under Article 30(1) of the Constitution.
Fact	Whilst the Petition was pending in this Court; Section 48-B was introduced in the Bihar State Universities Act, which provided that appointments, dismissals, removals, termination of service or reduction in rank of teachers or disciplinary measures could  only be taken with the approval of the <ORG> and the <ORG> of the University.
Fact	This was also challenged.
Fact	Thus in this case the interplay of Sections 29(2) and 30(1) did not come into questions at all.
Fact	In this case it was an admitted position that the college was open to non-Catholics also.
Precedent	One of the arguments raised on behalf of the <ORG> was that since the admissions were not reserved only for students of the <ORG> community the college did not qualify for protection under Article 30(1).
Precedent	This argument was negatived by holding that merely because members of other communities were admitted to the institution did not mean the institution lost its minority character.
Precedent	This case thus shows that even if members of other community are admitted into the institution the institution would still remain a minority institution which is under the management of the minority.
Precedent	50.
Precedent	<CITATION_1649950> , an educational institute was started by a Christian with the help of funds received from <ORG> y.
Precedent	The question was whether the institute was not entitled to protection of Article 30(1) merely because funds were obtained from United Kingdom and the management was carried on by some persons who may not have been born in India.
Precedent	This Court held that rights under Article 29 could only be claimed by Indian citizens, but Article 30 guarantees the rights of minority.
Precedent	It was held that the said Article does not refer to citizenship as the qualification for members of the minority.
Precedent	This case therefore does not deal with the question of the interplay between Articles 29(2) and 30(1).
Precedent	51.
Precedent	In the case of <CITATION_686466> reported in (1971) 1 SCR 734, the Constitutional validity of Sections 48, 49, 53, 56, 58 and 63 of the Kerala University Act was challenged as violation the rights under Section 30(1) .
Precedent	In this case there is no discussion regarding the effect of Article 29(2) on Article 30.
Precedent	In this case also it was held that rights under Article 30(1) are subject to reasonable restrictions.
Precedent	52.
Precedent	The case of <CITAT ION_1596466> reported in (1971) Supp.
Precedent	SCR 677 does not deal with Article 29(2) and its effect on Article 30.
Precedent	In this case Punjabi was made the sole medium of instruction and examination under <ORG> Act.
Precedent	It was held that this violated the rights under Article 29(1) as well as Article 30(1) inasmuch as the right to have an educational institution of a choice includes the right to have a choice of the medium of instruction also.
Precedent	53.
Precedent	In the second case of <CITATION_1596466> reported in (1971) Supp.
Precedent	SCR 688 <ORG> was formed to perpetuate the memory of the founder of <ORG>.
Precedent	It ran various institutions in the country.
Precedent	The collages managed and administered by the <ORG> were, before the Punjab Reorganisation Act , affiliated to <ORG>.
Precedent	After the reorganisation of the State of Punjab in 1969, <ORG> passed the Guru Nank University (Amritsar) Act .
Precedent	Colleges in the districts specified ceased to be affiliated to <ORG>  and were to be associated with and admitted to the privileges of the new university.
Precedent	Sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Act provided that the university "shall make provision for study and research on the life and teaching of <NAME> and their cultural and religious impact in the context of Indian and World Civilisation; and Sub-section (3) enjoined the <ORG> "to promote studies to provide for research in Punjabi language and literature and to undertake measures for the development of Punjabi language, literature and culture".
Precedent	By Clause 2(1)(a) of the Statutes framed under the Act, the colleges were required to have a regularly constituted governing body consisting of not more than 20 persons approved by the <ORG> including, among others, two representatives of the <ORG> and the principal of the <ORG>.
Precedent	Under Clause (1)(3) if these requirements were not complied with the affiliation was liable to be withdrawn.
Precedent	By Clause 18 the staff initially appointed were to be approved by the Vice Chancell or and subsequent changes had to be reported to the <ORG> for the Vice- Chancellor's approval.
Precedent	And by Clause 18 non- government colleges were to comply with the requirements laid down in the ordinance governing service and conduct of teachers.
Precedent	It was held that Clause 2(1)(a) interfered with the right of the religious minority to administer their educational institutions, but that Clause 18 did not suffer from the same vice.
Precedent	It was held that ordinances prescribing regulations governing the conditions of service and conduct of teachers must be considered to be one enacted in the larger interest of the institution to ensure their efficiency and excellence.
Precedent	It was similarly held that Sub- sections (2) and (3) of Section 4 do not offend any of the rights under Articles 29(1) and 30(1).
Precedent	It must be observed that, whilst dealing with the Articles 29 and 30, this <ORG> observed as follows: "It will be observed that Article 29(1) is wider than Article 30(1 ), in that, while any Section of the citizens including th e minorities, can invoke the rights guaranteed under Article 29(1 ), the rights guaranteed under Article 30(1) are only available to the minorities based on religion or language.
Precedent	It is not necessary for Article 30(1) that the minority should be both a religious minority as well as linguistic minority.
Precedent	It is sufficient if it is one or the other or both.
Precedent	A reading of these two Articles together would lead us to conclude that a religious or linguistic minority has a right to establish and administer educational institutions of its choice for effectively conserving its distinctive language, script or culture, which right however is subject to the regulatory power of the <ORG> for maintaining and facilitating the excellence of its standards.
Precedent	This right is further subject to Clause (2) of Article 29 which provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution which is maintained by the <ORG> or receives aid out of <ORG> funds, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of  them."
Precedent	(emphasis supplied)  54.
Precedent	Thus, even in 1971, this Court has held that Article 29(2) governs Article 30(1).
Precedent	The law laid down in <NAME> case, in <ORG> case and in Kerala Education Bill's case has been reaffirmed.
Precedent	Till this date no contrary view has been taken.
Precedent	Not a single case has held that rights under Article 30(1) would not be governed by Article 29(2).
Precedent	55.
Precedent	The authority on which strong reliance has been placed by the counsel of the minority is <ORG> case (supra).
Precedent	<ORG> was affiliated to <ORG>.
Precedent	A resolution was passe by the Senate of the <ORG> that all instruction, teaching and training in courses of studies in respect of which the <ORG> was competent to hold examinations shall be conducted by the university and shall be imported by teachers of the <ORG>.
Precedent	Section 5 of the Act provided that no educational institution situated within the <ORG> shall, save with the sanction of <ORG> , be associated in any way with or seek admission to any privilege of any other <ORG> established by law.
Statute	Section 33A(1)(a) of the Act provided that every <ORG> other than a <ORG> <ORG> or a <ORG> maintained by the <ORG>, shall be under the management of a governing body which included among others, the Principal of the <ORG> and a representative of the <ORG> nominated by the Vice-Chancellor.
Statute	Section 33A(1)(b)(I) provided that in the case of recruitment of the Principal, a selection committee is required to be constituted consisting of, among others, a representatives of the <ORG> nominated by the Vice-Chancellor and (ii) in the case of selection of a member of the teaching staff of the <ORG> a selection committee consisting of the Principal and a representative of the university nominated by the Vice-Chancellor.
Statute	Sub-section (3) of the Section stated that the provisions of Sub-section (1) of Section 33A shall be deemed to be a condition of affiliation of every college referr ed to in that sub-section.
Statute	Section 39 provided that within the <ORG> area all post-graduate instruction, teaching and training shall be conducted by the <ORG> or by such affiliated <ORG> or institution and in such subjects as may be prescribed by statutes.
Statute	Section 40(1) enacted that the Court of the <ORG> may determine that all instructions, teaching and training in courses of studies in respect of which the <ORG> is competent to hold examinations shall be conducted by the <ORG> and shall be imparted by the teachers of the <ORG>.
Statute	Sub-section (2) of Section 40 stated that <ORG> shall issue a notification declaring that the provisions of Section 41 shall come into force on such date as may be specified in the notification.
Statute	Section 41(1) of the Act stated that all colleges within the <ORG> area which are admitted to the privilege of the university under Section 5(3) and all colleges within the said area which may hereafter be affiliated to the <ORG> shall  be constituent colleges of the <ORG>.
Statute	Sub-section (4) stated that the relations of the constituent colleges and other institutions within the <ORG> area shall be governed by statutes to be made in that behalf.
Statute	Section 51A(a)(b) enacted that no member of the teaching other academic and non-teaching staff of an affiliated college shall be dismissed or removed or reduced in rank except after an enquiry in accordance with the procedure prescribed in Clause (a) and the penalty to be inflicted on him is approved by the Vice-Chancellor or any other Officer of the <ORG> authorised by the Vice-Chancellor in this behalf.
Statute	Similarly Clause (b) of Sub-section (2) required that such termination should be approved by the Vice-Chancellor or any officer of the <ORG> authorised by the Vice-Chancellor in this behalf.
Statute	Section 52A(1) enacted that any dispute between the governing body and any member of the teaching and other staff shall, on a request of the governing body or of the member concerned be referred  to a tribunal of arbitration consisting of one member nominated by the governing body of the college, one member nominated by the member concerned and an umpire appointed by the Vice-Chancellor.
Argument	<ORG> contended that they had a fundamental right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice and that such a right included the right of affiliation.
Argument	They therefore challenged the constitutional validity of the above Sections.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is in this context that various observations have been made.
RatioOfTheDecision	These observations cannot be drawn out of context.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this case it was an admitted position, as set out by Justice <NAME>, that children of all classes and creeds were admitted to the college provided they met the qualifying standards.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus the <ORG> never claimed the right to only admit students of its own community.
RatioOfTheDecision	It acknowledged the fact that it had to admit students of all classes and creeds.
RatioOfTheDecision	The majority Judgment, therefore, did not deal with the question or interplay between Arti cles 29(2) and 30.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even though it did not deal with the interplay of Articles 29(2) and 30, it was clear that reasoning of the majority is based on the fact that the <ORG> did not deny admissions to the students of other communities.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is clearly indicated by the test which had been laid down by the majority.
RatioOfTheDecision	This test reads as follows:  "Such regulation must satisfy a dual test - the test of reasonableness, and the test that it is regulative of the educational character of the institution and is conducive to making the institution an effective vehicle of education for the minority community or other persons who resort to it."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied) Thus it is held by the majority that the institute is to be made an effective vehicle of education not just for the minority community but also for other persons who resort to do.
RatioOfTheDecision	This indicates that the majority made the observations on the understanding that admissions were not restricted only to students of minority community once <ORG> aid was received.
RatioOfTheDecision	This  aspect is clearly brought out in the Judgment of Justice <NAME> who, whilst dealing with the various provisions of the Constitution, held as follows:  "A glance at the context and scheme of Part III of the Constitution would show that the Constitution makers did not intend to confer absolute rights on a religious or linguistic minority to establish and administer educational institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The associate Article 29(2) imposes one restriction on the right in Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	No religious or linguistic minority establishing and administering an educational institution which receives aid from the <ORG> funds shall deny admission to any citizen to the institution on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right to admit a student to an educational institution is admittedly comprised in the right to administer it.
RatioOfTheDecision	This right is partly curtailed by Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	The right of admission is further curtailed by Article 15(4) which provides an exception to Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 15(4) enab les the <ORG> to make any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward class of citizens or for the scheduled caste and scheduled tribes in the matter of admission in the educational institutions maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid from the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 28(3) imposes a third restriction on the right in Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	It provides that no person attending any educational institution recognised or receiving aid by the <ORG> shall be required to take part in any religious instruction that may be imparted in such institution or to attend any religious worship that may be conducted in such institution or in any premises attached thereto unless such person or, if such person is a minor, his guardian has given his consent thereto.
RatioOfTheDecision	Obviously, Article 28(3) prohibits a religious minority establishing and administering an educational institution which receives aid or is recognised by the <ORG> from compelling any citizen reading in the institution to receive religious instruct ion against his wishes or if minor against the wishes of his guardian.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot be disputed that the right of a religious minority to impart religious instruction in an educational institution forms part of the right to administer the institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	And yet Article 28(3) curtails that right to a certain extent.
RatioOfTheDecision	To sum up Articles 29(2), 15(4) and 28(3) place certain express limitations on the right in Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	There are also certain implied limitations on this right.
Precedent	The right should be read subject to those implied limitations."
Precedent	(emphasis supplied) Thus even in this authority the principle that Article 29(2) applies to Article 30(1) has been recognised and upheld.
Precedent	This case also holds that reasonable restrictions can be placed on the rights under Article 30(1) subject to the test set out hereinabove.
Precedent	56.
Precedent	In the case of <CITATION_1993702> reported in (1975) 3 SCR 810 the minority college was affiliated to <ORG>.
Precedent	It applies for permission to start teaching in certain courses of study.
Precedent	T he <ORG>, as a condition of permitting the additional subjects, insisted that <ORG> must be re-constituted in line with Statute 14-A which provided that the principal of the <ORG> and senior-most staff member should be part of <ORG>.
Precedent	The Petitioners filed a Writ Petition in <ORG> challenging the imposition of such a condition on the ground that it was violative of their rights under Article 30(1).
Precedent	<ORG> dismissed the Writ Petition.
Precedent	Therefore the Petitioners came to this Court.
Precedent	The majority of Judges upheld the order of <ORG>, inter alia, on the ground that the right under Article 30(1) is not the absolute right and that it is a right which can be restricted.
Precedent	After considering the various authorities (including some of those set out hereinabove) it was held that reasonable regulations are desirable, necessary and constitutional, provided they shape but not cut out of shape the individual personality of the minority.
Precedent	It was held as follows:  "I n all these cases administrative autonomy is imperilled transgressing purely regulatory limits.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our case autonomy is virtually left intact and refurbishing, not restructuring, is prescribed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The core of the right is not gouged out at all and the regulation is at once reasonable and calculated to promote excellence of the institution - a text book instance of constitutional conditions."
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus a condition that <ORG> be reconstituted is upheld.
RatioOfTheDecision	To be noted that the directly affects the right of administration.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now compulsory the principal and one of the staff members would be part of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Yet it has been held that this is not violative of rights under Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	57.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the case of <ORG> <CITATION_13862901> , one of the questions was the applicability of Article 29(2) to Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Even in this case it has been accepted that Article 29(2) applies to Section 30(1) .
RatioOfTheDecision	However, the majority of the Judges, after noting that Article 29(2) applies to Article 30(1  ), sought to compromise and/or strike a balance between Articles 29(2) and 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	They therefore prescribed a ratio of 50% to be admitted on merits and 50% to be admitted by the <ORG> from their own community.
RatioOfTheDecision	All Counsel, whether appearing for the minorities or for the <ORG>s/local authorities attacked this judgment and submitted that it is not correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course Counsel for the minorities were claiming a right to admit students of their own community even to the extent of 100%.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand the submission was that once <ORG> aid is taken Article 29(2) applied and not even a single student could be admitted on basis of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus all counsel attacked the judgment as being not correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	In matters of interpretation, there can be no compromise.
RatioOfTheDecision	As stated above if the language and meaning are clear then Courts must give effect to it irrespective of the consequence.
RatioOfTheDecision	With the greatest of respect to the learned Judges concerned, once it was held that Article 29(2) ap plied to Article 30 , there was no question of trying to balance rights or to seek a compromise.
RatioOfTheDecision	58.
RatioOfTheDecision	Justice <NAME> dissented from the majority view.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must be noted that in <NAME> case, in his minority judgment, he has held that Article 29(2) governs Article 30(1) and that if the minority educational institute chooses to take aid it must comply with the constitutional mandate of Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	The Judgment in St. Stephens case is of recent origin.
RatioOfTheDecision	It therefore cannot form the basis for applying the principles of "State Decisis".
RatioOfTheDecision	59.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, from any point of view i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	historical or contextual or on principles of pure interpretation or on principles of "stare decisis" the only interpretation possible is that the rights under Article 30(1) are conferred on minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice at their own cost.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right is a special right which is given by way of protection so that the majority, which is politically powerful, does not prevent the minorities  from establishing their educational institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	This right was not created because the minorities were economically and socially backward or that their children would not be able to compete on merit with children of other communities.
RatioOfTheDecision	This right was not conferred in order to create a special category of the citizens.
RatioOfTheDecision	What has been granted to them is a right which was equal to the rights enjoyed by the majority community, namely, to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice at their own cost.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the institution was to be established and maintained at their own expense no right to receive aid has been conferred on the minority institute.
RatioOfTheDecision	All that Article 30(2) provides is that the <ORG> while granting aid would not discriminate merely on the ground that an educational institute was under the management of a minority.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 30(2) has been so worded as the framers were aware that once <ORG> aid was taken some aspects of the right of administration would have to be compromised and give n up.
RatioOfTheDecision	The minority educational institute have a choice.
RatioOfTheDecision	They need not take <ORG> aid.
RatioOfTheDecision	But if they choose to take <ORG> aid then they have to comply with constitutional mandates which are based on principles which are as important as if not more important than the rights given to the minorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	Our Constitution mandates that the <ORG> cannot discriminate on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Our Constitution mandates that all citizens are equal and that no citizen can be denied admission into educational institution maintained by the <ORG> or receiving aid out of <ORG> funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus if <ORG> aid is taken the minority educational institution must then not refuse admission to students of other communities on any of those grounds.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, they cannot then insist that they would admit students only of their community.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course, as stated above, preferences could always be given to students of their own community.
RatioOfTheDecision	But preference necessarily implies that all other things are equal, i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	that on merit the student of their community is equal to the merit of the student of other community.
RatioOfTheDecision	As stated above, in para 37, in schools the minority community would have a larger amount of leeway and so long as the school admits a sufficient number of outsiders Article 29(2) would not be violated if the refusal is not made on the basis of the religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course, at the under-graduate and post-graduate stages merit would have to be the criteria.
RatioOfTheDecision	At these stages there are common entrance examinations by which inter se merit can be assessed.
RatioOfTheDecision	But even here, the minority educational institute can admit students of its own community on grounds like those set out in para 37 above.
RatioOfTheDecision	They could give some preference to students coming from their own schools.
RatioOfTheDecision	There could be interviews wherein not more than 15% marks can be allotted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Students of their community will be able to compete on merit also.
RatioOfTheDecision	All t hese would ensure that a sufficient number of students of their own community receive admissions.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the minority institute, once it receives <ORG> aid, cannot refuse to abide by the constitutional mandate of Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be paradoxical to unsettle settled law at such a late stage.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be paradoxical to hold that the rights under Article 30(1) are subject to municipal and other laws, but that they are not subject to the constitutional mandate under Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be paradoxical to held that Article 30(1) is subject to Article 28(3) but not to Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	It must be remembered that when Article 29(2) was introduced it was part of the same Article (viz.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 23 ) which also included what is now Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Not only <ORG> but also the fact that they were part of the same Article shows that Article 29(2) was intended by the framers of the Constitution to apply even to institutions established under Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus Article 29(2) governs educational  institutions established under Article 30(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	The language is clear and unambiguous.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is clear that Article 30(1) has full play so long as the educational institution is established and maintained and administered by the minority at their own costs.
RatioOfTheDecision	Article 30(2) purposely and significantly does not make taking or granting of aid compulsory.
RatioOfTheDecision	The minority educational institution need not take aid.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, it is chooses to take aid then it can hardly claim that it would not abide by the Constitutional mandate of Article 29(2).
RatioOfTheDecision	Once the language is clear and unambiguous full effect must be given to Article 29(2) irrespective of the consequences.
RatioOfTheDecision	This can be the only interpretation.
RatioOfTheDecision	The only interplay between Articles 29(2) and 30(1) is that once <ORG> aid is taken, then students of all communities must be admitted.
RatioOfTheDecision	In others words, no citizen can be refused admission on grounds of religion, race, caste or creed or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reserving seats for students of one's own community would in effect be refusing ad mission on grounds of religion, race, caste, or creed.
RatioOfTheDecision	As there is no conflict the question of balancing rights under Article 30(1) and Article 29(2) of the Constitution does not arise.
RatioOfTheDecision	As stated by <ORG> in the case of <ORG> v. <NAME> (411 US 1), it is not the province of this Court to create substantive Constitutional rights in the name of guaranteeing equal protection.
RatioOfTheDecision	60.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of above discussion we answer the questions as follows: Q.1.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is the meaning and content of the expression "minorities" in Article 30 of the Constitution of India?
RatioOfTheDecision	A. Linguistic and religious minorities are covered by the expression "minority" under Article 30 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since reorganization of the States in India has been on linguistic lines, therefore, for the purpose of determining the minority, the unit will be the State and not the whole of India.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, religious and linguistic minorities, who have been put at par in Article 30 , have to be consi dered state wise.
RatioOfTheDecision	Q.2.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is meant by the expression "religion" in Article 30(1)?
Precedent	Can the followers of a sect or denomination of a particular religion claim protection under Article 30(1) on the basis that they constitute a minority in the State, even though the followers of that religion are in majority in that State?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>; it will be dealt with by a regular <ORG>.
Precedent	Q.3(a) What are the indicia for treating an educational institution as a minority educational institution?
Precedent	Would an institution be regarded as a minority educational institution because it was established by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority or its being administered by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>, it will be dealt with by a regular <ORG>.
Precedent	Q.3(b) To what extent can professional education be treated as a matter coming under minorities rights under Article 30?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	Article 30(1) gives reli gious and linguistic minorities the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.
Precedent	The use of the words "of their choice", indicates that professional educational institutions would be covered by Article 30.
Precedent	Q.4.
Precedent	Whether the admission of students to minority educational institution, whether aided or unaided, can be regulated by <ORG> or by the <ORG> to which the institution is affiliated?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	Admission of students to unaided minority educational institutions, viz., Schools where scope for merit based selection is practically nil, cannot be regulated by the <ORG> or the <ORG> (except for providing the qualifications and minimum conditions of eligibility in the interest of academic standards).
RatioOfTheDecision	Right to admit students being an essential facet of right to administer educational institutions of their choice, as contemplated under Article 30 of the Constitution, <ORG> or the <ORG> may not be entitled to interfere with that right in respect  of unaided minority institutions provided however that the admission to the unaided educational institutions is on transparent basis and the merit is the criteria.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right to administer, not being an absolute one, there could be regulator measures for ensuring educational standards and maintain exceptance thereof and it is more so, in the matter of admission to undergraduate Colleges and professional institutions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The moment aid is received or taken by a minority educational institution it would be governed by Article 29(2) and would then not be able to refuse admission on grounds of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words it cannot then give preference to students of its own community.
RatioOfTheDecision	Observance of inter se merit amongst the applicants must be ensured.
Precedent	In the case of aided professional institutions, it can also be stipulated that passing of common entrance test held by the <ORG> agency is necessary to seek admission.
Precedent	Q.5(a) Whether the minority's rights to establish and administer  educational institutions of their choice will include the procedure and method of admission and selection of students?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	A minority institution may have its own procedure and method of admission as well as selection of students, but such procedure must be fair and transparent and selection of students in professional and higher educational colleges should be on the basis of merit.
Precedent	The procedure adopted or selection made should not tantamount to mal-administration.
Precedent	Even an unaided minority institution, ought not to ignore merit of the students for admission, while exercising its right to admit students to the colleges, aforesaid, as in that event.
Precedent	The institution will fail to achieve excellence.
Precedent	Q.5(b) Whether the minority institutions' right of admission of students and to lay down procedure and method of admission, if any, would be affected in any way by the receipt of <ORG> aid?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	Further to what is stated in answer to question No.
Precedent	4, it must be stated that whilst giving aid to professional institutio ns, it would be permissible for the authority giving aid to prescribe by-rules or regulations, the conditions on the basis of which admission will be granted to different aided colleges by virtue of merit, coupled with the reservation policy of the state.
Precedent	The merit may be determined either through a common entrance test conducted by the <ORG> or the <ORG> followed by counselling, or on the basis of an entrance test conducted by individual institutions - the method to be followed is for the university or the government to decide.
Precedent	The authority may also devise other means to ensure that admission is granted to an aided professional institution on the basis of merit.
Precedent	In the case of such institutions, it will be permissible for the government or the university to provide that consideration should be shown to the weaker sections of the society.
Precedent	Q.5(c) Whether the statutory Provisions which regulate the facets of administration like control over educational agencies, control over governing bodies, conditi ons of affiliation including recognition/withdrawal thereof, and appointment of state employees, teachers and Principals including their service conditions and regulation of fees, etc.
Precedent	would interfere with the right of administration of minorities?
Precedent	A.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as the statutory provisions regulating the facets administration is concerned, in case of an unaided minority educational institution, the regulatory measure of control should be minimal and the conditions of recognition as well as conditions of affiliation to an <ORG> or Board have to be complied with, but in the matter of day-to-day <ORG>, like appointment of staff, teaching and non-teaching and administrative control over them, the <ORG> should have the freedom and there should not be any external controlling agency.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, a rational procedure for selection of teaching staff and for taking disciplinary action has to be evolved by the <ORG> itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	For redressing the grievances of such employees who are subjected to punishment or  termination from service, a mechanism will have to be evolved and in our opinion, appropriate tribunals could be constituted, and till then, such tribunal could be presided over by a Judicial officer of the rank of District Judge.
RatioOfTheDecision	The state or other controlling authorities, however, can always prescribe the minimum qualifications, salaries, experience and other conditions bearing on the merit of an individual for being appointed as a teacher of an educational institution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Regulations can be framed governing service conditions for teaching and other staff for whom aid is provided by the <ORG> without interfering with overall administrative control of Management over the staff, <ORG> representative can be associated with the selection committee and the guidelines for selection can be laid down.
RatioOfTheDecision	In regard to un-aided minority educational institutions such regulations, which will ensure a check over unfair practices and general welfare, of teachers could be framed.
RatioOfTheDecision	There could be appropriate me chanism to ensure that no capitation fee is charged and profiteering is not restored to.
RatioOfTheDecision	The extent of regulations will not be the same for aided and un-aided institutions.
Precedent	Q.6(a) Where can minority institution be operationally located?
Precedent	Where a religious or linguistic minority in State 'A' establishes an educational institution in the said State, can such educational institution grant preferential admission/reservations and other benefits to members of the religious/linguistic group from other States where they are non-minorities?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>; it will be dealt with by a regular <ORG>.
Precedent	Q.6(b) Whether it would be correct to say that only the members of that minority residing in State 'A' will be treated as the members of the minority vis-a-vis such institution?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>; it will be dealt with by a regular <ORG>.
Precedent	Q.7.
Precedent	Whether the member of a linguistic non-minority in one State can establish a trust/society in another State a nd claim minority status in that State?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	This question need not be answered by this <ORG>; it will be dealt with by a regular <ORG>.
Precedent	Q.8 Whether the ratio laid down by this <ORG> in the <ORG> case (<ORG> <CITATION_13862901> is correct?
Precedent	If no, what order?
Precedent	A.
RatioOfTheDecision	The ratio laid down in <ORG> College case is not correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	Once State aid is taken and Article 29(2) comes into play, then no question arises of trying to balance Article 29(2) and 31.
Precedent	Article 29(2) must be given its full effect.
Precedent	Q.9 Whether the decisions of this <ORG> in <CITATION_1775396> .
Precedent	(except where it holds that primary education is a fundamental right) and the scheme framed thereunder require reconsideration/modification and if yes, what?
Precedent	A.
RatioOfTheDecision	The scheme framed by this <ORG> in <NAME> case and the direction to impose the same, except where it holds that primary education is a fundamental right, is unconstitutional.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, the principle that there should not be capitation fee or profiteering is correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> nable surplus to meet cost of expansion and augmentation of facilities does not, however, amount to profiteering.
Precedent	Q.10 Whether the non-minorities have the right to establish and administer educational institution under Articles 21 and 29(1) read with Article 14 and 15(1 ), in the same manner and to the same extent as minority institutions?
Precedent	and Q.11 What is the meaning of the expressions "Education" and "Educational Institutions" in various provisions of the Constitution?
Precedent	Is the right to establish and administer educational institutions guaranteed under the Constitution?
Precedent	A.
Precedent	The expression "education" in the Articles of the Constitution means and includes education at all levels from the primary school level up to the post-graduate level.
Precedent	It includes professional education.
Precedent	The expression "educational institutions" means institutions that impart education, where "education" is as understood hereinabove.
Precedent	The right to establish and administer educational institutions is guaranteed under the Constitution to all  citizens under Article 19(1)(g) and 26 , and to minorities specifically under Article 30.
Precedent	All citizens have a right to establish and administer educational institutions under Articles 19(1)(g) and 26, but this right will be subject to the provisions of Articles 19(6) and 26(a).
Precedent	However, minority institutions will have a right to admit students belonging to the minority group, in the manner as discussed in this judgment.
RulingByPresentCourt	Hon'ble Judge :  <NAME> on 25th November 2002 Gave reasons for concurring opinion in the judgment.
