Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This is an appeal from an award of <ORG>, Kamrup, of March 25, 1986, made in MAC Case No.
Fact	47(K) of 1985.
Fact	2.
Fact	A goods vehicle bearing registration No.
Fact	AMK 6224 loaded with timbers was driven rashly and negligently and hit the car in which, the claimant was travelling.
Fact	In that accident, the claimant sustained injuries on his chest, little finger of the right hand, left leg and private parts..
Fact	The claimant claimed Rs.
Fact	50,000 against the owner and the driver of the vehicle as well as against the insurance company.
Fact	The case proceeded ex parte against the owner and the driver of the vehicle.
Fact	The insurance company contested the case by filing a written statement.
Fact	The <ORG> made an award directing the insurance company to pay Rs.
Fact	25,000 with interest at 9% from the date of application'for compensation to the date of payment and costs of Rs.
Fact	500.
Fact	Against the award, the insurance company has filed this appeal.
Fact	3.
Fact	The facts which emerge out of the record are as  follows.
Fact	The date, March 22, 1986, was fixed for framing issues and filing documents.
Fact	But, on that day, no order was passed nor was any issue framed.
Fact	No date was ever fixed by the <ORG> either for hearing of the case or for any purpose in the progress of the case.
Fact	No forma!
Fact	notice was issued to the parties concerned intimating the date of hearing as on March 25, 1986.
Fact	The case was taken up unexpectedly on March 25, 1986, for hearing.
Fact	The advocate for the insurance company was present accidentally at the time of recording evidence of the claimant and making the award.
Fact	An application filed on March 25, 1986, by counsel for the insurance company for setting aside the award stating the facts abovementioned was rejected on March 29, 1986, by the memberof the <ORG> on the ground that he was to dispose of the matter on an off-date in order to clear his arrears as he was under orders of transfer.
Fact	4.
Fact	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the appellant, the insurance company, submitted that the award was made by  the <ORG> on an offdate in violation of the principles of natural justice and procedural laws.
Fact	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the claimant, the respondent herein, submitted that the examination of witness and the delivery of the judgment were made in the presence of counsel for the insurance company ; and that the judgment of the <ORG> indicates that the <ORG>, heard the counsel for the insurance company, who was present at the time of hearing and the delivery of the judgment.
Fact	Therefore, no prejudice was caused to the insurance company.
Fact	5.
Fact	The purpose of fixing a date for hearing of evidence is for giving the parties concerned a reasonable opportunity to contest the case in a fair manner.
Fact	The petition to set aside the award filed on March 25, 1986, by counsel for the company was disposed of by the learned member of the <ORG> on March 29, 1986.
Fact	Therefore, there was no time compulsion to dispose of the case on March 25, 1986.
Fact	By the mere presence of counsel for the insurance company acciden tally at the time of recording evidence and delivery of the judgment, it cannot be said that the appellant, the insurance company, was given a reasonable opportunity of hearing because he was genuinely handicapped by reason of the procedure adopted by the learned member of the <ORG>.
Fact	Justice is something more than to decide what is right or wrong.
Fact	A judge may be fully satisfied in his mind that he has done justice.
Fact	It is not enough.
RatioOfTheDecision	It should be done in such a manner that all persons are satisfied that justice has been done, bearingin mind that "justice must also appear to have been done ".
RatioOfTheDecision	6.
RulingByPresentCourt	For the foregoing reasons, the judgment and award dated March 25, 1986, passed by the <ORG> is set aside and the case is remitted to the <ORG> for disposal afresh after giving an opportunity to the appellant, the insurance company, to be heard.
RulingByPresentCourt	However, it is made clear that any amount paid to the respondent-claimant shall not be recovered for the time beingand it would be subject to the result of the final de cision of the <ORG>.
RulingByPresentCourt	No costs.
