Fact	<NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	The plaintiff, who brought a suit for damages, is the appellant.
Fact	By an order of this <ORG>, dated December 2, 1959, the heirs of deceased respondents 4 and 12 were substituted in the present appeal.
Fact	But the application made for setting aside the abatement and for substitution in respect of respondents 1, 29 and 30 was dismissed on the same day.
Fact	The appeal stood dismissed against respondents 1, 29, 30.
Fact	At the time of the hearing, learned Counsel for the respondents raised a preliminary objection and contended that the whole appeal has abated and cannot be proceeded with by the plaintiff now, He urged that there would be conflict of decrees, if in this appeal the plaintiff succeeded ultimately on merit.
Fact	I do not think so.
RatioOfTheDecision	No decree in favour of the deceased respondent was passed in this case by the lower <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	If any decree will be passed here in favour of the plaintiff, that will alone be binding against the defendants-respondents on record here, and will, in no way, affect the h eirs of deceased respondents 1, 29 and 30.
RatioOfTheDecision	Learned Counsel cited the Case of <NAME> v. <NAME>, AIR 1932 Pat 327 and the case of <NAME> v. <NAME>, AIR 1936 Pat 191.
RatioOfTheDecision	These cases, in my view, are not of any assistance to the contention raised.
Fact	The former case was for possession of Certain im-moveable property and for mesne profits.
Fact	There was a decree in favour of the plaintiff both for possession and certain amount of mesne profits.
Fact	But as the plaintiff wanted higher mesne profits, he came in appeal.
Fact	One of the respondents died during the pendency of the appeal, and his heirs were not substituted within time.
Fact	There, it was held that the whole appeal had abated, because.
Fact	if a decree for higher mesne profits was passed in the appeal itself, that would result in variance with the decree that had been passed by the lower Court and had become final, as far as the heirs of the deceased respondent were concerned.
Fact	Similarly, in the latter case, in a suit based on handnote the p laintiff obtained a decree both for the principal and interest; but as he claimed pen-dente lite interest, he came in appeal.
Fact	There, the same view was taken.
Argument	Both the cases are distinguishable from the facts of the present case, where no decree fixing any liability on any of the defendants has been passed, and therefore, there is no chance of any conflict in the decrees, if the appeal as decided on merit in favour of the appellant.
Argument	2.
Argument	Learned counsel urged that it was open to the plaintiff to proceed against any of the defendants who were alleged to have committed damage to him.
Argument	He might have left out some of those persons and impleaded others as defendants in the suit.
Argument	Once he those to proceed against some named defendants, it would not be open to him at a subsequent stage, either during the suit of in the appeal, to forgo his claim against some of the defendants by not bringing on record their substituted heirs, and proceed against the rest.
Precedent	The question that really arises for consideration can be framed  as follows: According to the allegation of the plaintiff, there was a large number of joint tort-feasors.
Precedent	He claimed in his suit damages against some of them, leaving others from the suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	Is it open to him either in the first appeal stage, or in the second appeal stage to give up voluntarily some of the defendants and confine bis claim of damages against others?
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case, having tailed to bring the heirs of the deceased respondents 1, 29 and 30, the position is that the plaintiff wants to press his claim for damages against the other defendants.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my view, it is undoubtedly in the option of the plaintiff to choose against which of the joint tort-feasors he would like to proceed, and once he makes such a choice and comes to the court and brings the joint tort-feasors as the defendants in his suit, it will not be permissible for him at a later stage to proceed against some of them and leave others alone.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be that during the trial, on evidence, if it is found that some of the joint tort-feas ors, impleaded as defendants, were not involved in the alleged wrong and were not liable to the plaintiff for damages, the suit may be dismissed by the court as against them.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is not the same as the plaintiff choosing some of the joint tort-feasors out of those whom he brought on record.
Precedent	I may here refer to the Case of the Calcutta High Court in <CITATION_942712> , 62 Ind Cas 714 (Cal).
Precedent	The judgment delivered by the late Sir <NAME>, C. J. in that case is a short one, where it was held that in the suit which was framed as a suit for damages for tort against all wrong-doers, it would not be open to the plaintiff-appellant to contend that he could proceed against some of them at his choice in appeal.
Precedent	In that case, one of the respondents died, and no one was substituted in her place.
RatioOfTheDecision	For lack of substitution of the representatives of the deceased defendant, the whole appeal was held to be incompetent to be proceeded with.
RatioOfTheDecision	That principle completely applies to the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	No reason, of course , has been given in that judgment, but it appears to be quite obvious.
RatioOfTheDecision	The op-tion which the plaintiff possesses in such cases can be exercised before the suit is instituted, and not thereafter.
RatioOfTheDecision	Otherwise, it would lead to absurd positions and to great disadvantages of the parties.
Precedent	Suppose, a plaintiff claimed damages of Rs.
Fact	5000/-against five wrong doers impleaded as defendants.
Fact	His suit was dismissed by the trial court.
RatioOfTheDecision	He comes in appeal, and there he leaves out two of the defendants and proceeds with his appeal against three.
Fact	He gets a decree of Rs.
Fact	3000/.
Fact	as damages in the first appellate Court.
Fact	When he comes for enhanced damages in second appeal, he only impleads two of the three defendants against whom he had preferred the appeal at the first appellate stage.
Argument	In second appeal, let us suppose that the plaintiff gets a decree of damages of Rs.
Argument	5000/-, which alone will be payable, if his option in regard to the defendants is left unrestricted, by the two persons against whom the second appeal is preferr ed.
Argument	In other words, the person who had been impleaded as a party defendant-respondent in the first appellate stage where a decree was passed for a lesser amount will go scot-free whereas the Only two persons proceeded against in the second appeal will be saddled with the damages of Rs, 5000/-.
RatioOfTheDecision	Other disadvantages of like nature also may be caused if unrestricted option is left to the plaintiff after the institution of the suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my view, once the plaintiff chooses to bring on record a number of defendants as wrong doers for a claim of damages against them, he will have to proceed against all of them until the matter is adjudicated finally one way or the other.
RatioOfTheDecision	Lack of substitution of the heirs of any of the defendants, at the appellate stage will result in the abatement of the whole appeal.
Precedent	3.
Precedent	In the present case, the plaintiff contended that he was a raiyat in respect of the land, from which, it was alleged that the defendants took away forcibly the crop.
Precedent	The finding of the trial court Ss that he is not  a raiyat.
Precedent	The defence was that the defendants had taken settlement from the landlord in respect of those lands.
Precedent	The effect of the decree passed by the trial court against the plaintiff was that the plaintiff was not a raiyat, and whatever interest there was in the defendants in regard to their alleged settlement was not affected, in any way.
Precedent	In the present appeal, if it is now allowed to be proceeded on merits, and if the finding comes to be that the plaintiff is a raiyat, then certainly in regard to the status what has already been found in favour and in the presence of the deceased defen-dants 1, 29 and 30 would be in conflict with the finding of this Court.
Precedent	That is one of the reasons also for which this appeal cannot be proceeded with.
Precedent	4.
Precedent	Learned counsel for the respondents also cited the case reported in <CITATION_1214597> , AIR 1958 Pat 495.
Fact	There, the suit was ior damages for malicious prosecution, and it was dismissed by the trial Court.
Fact	When it was pending in appeal, one of the defendants died and w as not substituted by his heirs.
Fact	In that case, the whole appeal was held to have abated.
Fact	The facts of the present case are similar to that.
Fact	5.
Fact	Learned counsel for the appellant relied upon Order 22, Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and contended that as the right to sue survived against the other defendants, the appeal would not be affected.
Fact	The whole question is, which of the rules 2, 3 and 4 will be applicable to the present case.
Fact	Two cases were cited before me: <CITATION_1343303> , AIR 1938 Bom 6 and <CITATION_176311> , AIR 1925 Pat 480.
Fact	In the former case, the suit was for dissolution and accounts of joint family partnership.
Fact	There, one of the defendants had died without substitution of his heirs, and the suit itself was dismissed on that ground, as it was held to have abated.
Argument	In the other case, it was clearly held that it was to be governed by the provisions of Order 22, Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Argument	6.
RulingByPresentCourt	I would, therefore, hold that, in view of the order of abatement passed by this court  on the 2nd December, 1959, as against the respondents 1, 29 and 30, the whole appeal, in the circumstan ces of the case, will be treated to have abated and cannot be proceeded with.
