Fact	JUDGMENT Adami, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This is an application directed against an order pasted by the <NAME> at Barh setting aside a sale in execution of a rent-decree under Order XXI, Rules 90 and 92 of the Civil Procedure Code.
Fact	2.
Fact	It appears that the petitioner, <NAME> obtained a rent-decree, brought the holding to sale on the 16th February 1920, and purchased it himself.
Fact	The sale was confirmed on the 22nd March, and possession was delivered on the 25th May.
Fact	Thereafter, the petitioner sold the holding to one Punit, for about double the amount he had paid for it at the auction-sale.
Fact	The opposite party applied on the nth September 1920 under Order XXI, Rule 90 to have the sale set aside on the ground of material irregularity in the service of notices and in the sale proclamation, and of fraud, He asserted that, by reason of the irregularities and fraud, an altogether inadequate amount had been paid for the holding, and that, owing to want of notice and fraud and his absence from the village by reason of illness, he had no k nowledge, of the sale proceedings until the 26th August 1920.
Fact	3.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> held that notices had not been, properly issued, that an inadequte value was entered in the sale proclamation, that owing to this a wholly inadequate price had keen paid at the auction, that there had been fraudulent collusion between the decree-holder and judgment-debtor, and that notices had not been issued under Section 158-B to the co-sharer landlords of whom the opposite party was one.
RulingByLowerCourt	He, therefore, set aside the sale, holding that the opposite party's application was within time, since he had been kept out of knowledge of the proceedings by the petitioners until 26th August 1920.
Fact	The District Judge has upheld the <ORG>'s findings and dismissed the petitioner's appeal.
Fact	4.
Fact	The opposite party claimed to have purchased part of the holding and to have possession of another portion under a mortgage, the kabala and mortgage-deed having been executed before the suit of the decree-holder.
Fact	5.
Fact	It is contended now before me that an app lication under Order XXI, Rule 90, to set aside a sale on the ground of fraud can only be made prior to confirmation of the sale, and that, therefore, the <ORG> had no jurisdiction to entertain the application of the opposite party.
Fact	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	I do not think that this contention can be supported.
Precedent	I have been referred to a decision by <NAME>, J., of <ORG>, <CITATION_1438589> 51 Ind.
Precedent	Cas.
Precedent	447 but am not able to follow the reasoning given therein.
Precedent	Where the sale or an irregularity affecting the sale has, by the fraud of the decree-holder or other parties to the sale, teen kept concealed from the judgment-debtor, he is entitled to apply under Rule 90 whether the sale has been, confirmed or not, and.
Precedent	the time for making the application is to be computed from the date when the fraud first became known to him, <NAME> v. <NAME> 17 C. (sic) : 8 Ind.
Precedent	Dec.
Precedent	(N.S.)
Precedent	1056; <NAME> v. <NAME> 30 C. 142 at p. 153 : 7 C.W.N.
Precedent	305.
Precedent	There is nothing iii Order XXL, Rule 90 which limit s the filing of an application to the period prior to confirmation of the sale.
Argument	7.
Argument	It is next contended that, in order to enable the opposite party to plead extension of time for his application to the date of knowledge, he must show that he was kept ignorant through fraud, and that there is no finding that in this case the petitioner, was aware of the opposite party's purchase and mortgage, or that he fraudulently withheld knowledge from him, the case being that the opposite party was away through illness.
Argument	It has been found, however, that notices at various stages were not served, especially the notice required under Section 158-B, and the whole tenor of the decisions of the lower <ORG> is, that the petitioner purposely prevented service of notices.
Argument	8.
Argument	The third ground taken is that the opposite party being a pun baser of only a portion of the holding and mortgagee of another portion, the landlord decree-holder was not bound to recognise him, end he had no right to file an application under Order XXI, Rul e 90.
Fact	This point was not taken in the lower <ORG> and I have not material before me to show whether the kobala and mortgage covered the whole of the holding so as to effect a transfer of the whole.
Fact	9.
Fact	On the findings of the lower <ORG>, I can see no good ground to interfere.
Fact	The application is rejected.
Fact	Hearing fee three gold mohurs.
