Fact	CASE NO.
Fact	: Appeal (civil) 5928-5929 of 2004 PETITIONER: <NAME> HOUSING BOARD RESPONDENT: <NAME> & ORS DATE OF JUDGMENT: 15/03/2007 BENCH: <NAME> & <NAME> JUDGMENT:  J U D G M E N T [with C.A.
Fact	No.
Fact	5932 of 2004, C.A.
Fact	No.
Fact	5938 of 2004, C.A.
Fact	No.
Fact	5933 of 2004 and C.A.
Fact	No.
Fact	5934 of 2004] <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	Forty-three writ petitioners, the contesting respondents in these appeals, approached <ORG> with W.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	1109 of 2000 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Tamil Nadu, its officers and <ORG> to re-convey the lands comprised in Survey Nos.
Fact	237, 238/1, 238/2 and 238/3 in all 2.43 acres, in Padi village presently in Ambattur Taluk and for passing such further orders as deemed by the court to be fit and proper.
Fact	The Writ Petition was filed through a power of attorney.
Fact	It was stated that the properties belonged to one <NAME> and it was inherited by his four sons and their successors.
Fact	It was asserte d that the writ petitioners were the absolute owners of the property as legal heirs and are in lawful possession and enjoyment of the said property.
Fact	The writ petitioners were in joint possession and they were the joint owners of the property.
Fact	The land was sought to be acquired for housing purposes.
Fact	It was conceded that a notification under Section 4(1) of the Land Acquisition Act was published on 12.7.1975 followed by a declaration under Section 6 of that Act on 29.11.1978, followed up by an Award on 7.10.1992.
Fact	It was stated that the petitioners reliably understood that the appropriate authorities had passed orders for dropping the Scheme for which the acquisition was made.
Fact	Thus, the valuable lands of the petitioners were kept idle and it caused great hardship to them.
Fact	For 21 years no progress had been made.
Fact	If the lands that were acquired were not being used for the purpose for which it was intended to be utilised, the writ petitioners could very well put the land to their own use.
Fact	The piece of land was a lo w lying area and a large amount has been spent by the writ petitioners recently for filling up and raising the level of the land.
Fact	A representation was made to the Secretary to the Government in <ORG> for taking steps under Section 48 of the Land Acquisition Act, de-notifying or excluding the lands from acquisition.
Fact	But unfortunately, the request of the writ petitioners has not been considered favourably.
Fact	The lands had not been taken possession of by the respondents.
Fact	The writ petitioners had earlier filed W.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	19162 of 1999 before <ORG> praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the respondents therein not to interfere with the peaceful possession of the writ petitioners.
Fact	But the said Writ Petition was dismissed as not pressed with liberty given to the petitioners to file a fresh Writ Petition incorporating a proper prayer.
Fact	Hence the present Writ Petition was being filed.
Fact	We have already adverted to the prayer that was made.
Fact	2.
Argument	The respondents in the Writ Petition subm itted that earlier, an application had been made by the writ petitioners under Section 48B of the Land Acquisition Act as amended in the State of Madras, but the said request had been rejected by the Government.
Argument	It is significant that there is no challenge to such a rejection in the Writ Petition and no prayer for a writ of certiorari to quash such an order.
Argument	It was also contended that the Scheme was very much alive and the lands are intended to be utilised for the purpose for which the acquisition was made.
Fact	The delay in putting it to use was because of various litigations that had been initiated.
Fact	The possession of the lands had been taken and made over to <ORG>.
Fact	The writ petitioners were not entitled to any relief.
Fact	The competence of the writ petitioners to maintain the Writ Petition was also questioned.
Fact	3.
Fact	The learned single judge proceeded on the basis that the Writ Petition was filed for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the respondents therein to re-convey the lands involved  in the Writ Petition in terms of Section 48B of the Act as inserted in the State of Tamil Nadu.
Fact	The court proceeded to state that by way of earlier order dated 2.7.1999, a notification in respect of other lands acquired for the purpose of the Scheme had been quashed and re-conveyance ordered and since there was no further development in respect of the lands which were taken possession of by <ORG>, there should not be any impediment in the way of the respondents in disposing of the representation of the writ petitioners dated 18.3.1998 seeking re-conveyance of the lands under Section 48B of the Land Acquisition Act.
Fact	The learned Judge did not advert to the fact that a request made earlier in that behalf by the writ petitioners, stood rejected and there was no challenge to that rejection.
Fact	The learned single judge ended up by directing the State of Tamil Nadu to pass appropriate orders on the representation given on behalf of the writ petitioners within three months from the date of receip t of a copy of his judgment.
Fact	4.
Fact	The writ petitioners went up in appeal against the decision of the learned single judge.
Fact	<ORG> even without issuing notice to <ORG> to which the property had been transferred by the <ORG> according to the <ORG> and the <ORG>, proceeded to direct the <ORG> of Tamil Nadu and its officers to re-convey the concerned lands to the writ petitioners  appellants.
Fact	The Tamil Nadu Housing <ORG> sought to challenge this order in this Court by way of Petition for Special Leave to Appeal (Civil) No.
Argument	2813 of 2002.
Argument	The Petition for Special Leave to Appeal was dismissed as withdrawn in the light of the statement of the learned counsel for <ORG> that the <ORG> intended to file a petition for Review in <ORG>.
Argument	Thereafter, the <ORG> filed a review petition in <ORG> essentially contending that Section 48B had no application; that it had not been heard or notice issued to it before the allowing of the writ appeal and that t he order in the writ appeal deserves to be reviewed.
Fact	<ORG>, without properly adverting to the aspects that arose for decision, simply dismissed the review petition and also closed a contempt of court case filed by the writ petitioners by granting further time to the Government to comply with the directions contained in the order of <ORG> dated 7.12.2001.
Fact	<ORG> has come up with Civil Appeal Nos.
Fact	5928-5929 of 2004 and Civil Appeal No.
Fact	5932 of 2004 challenging the orders on the review petition, original judgment and in the contempt of court case.
Fact	The State of Tamil Nadu has filed the three appeals C.A.
Precedent	Nos.
Fact	5934, 5938 and 5933 of 2004 challenging the orders of <ORG> that are the subject of challenge by <ORG> in its appeals.
Argument	5.
Argument	Learned counsel for the contesting respondents relying on the decision in <ORG> Vs. <ORG> [(2006) 8 S.C.C.
Argument	555] raised a contention that the appeals by <ORG> ing Board being appeals against the orders in review petition were not maintainable since <ORG> had withdrawn the earlier Petition for Special Leave to Appeal filed by it against the original order reserving only liberty in itself to seek a review in <ORG>.
Argument	On the facts and in the circumstances of the case on hand, however, in our considered opinion, the withdrawal of earlier Petition for Special Leave to Appeal by <ORG> cannot stand in the way of our examining the correctness of the decisions rendered by <ORG> in view of the fact that the State of Tamil Nadu had not earlier challenged the original order of <ORG> before this Court and now alone it seeks to challenge the original order, the order on the review petition it had filed and the order on the contempt of court case in the appeals it has filed before this Court.
Argument	The principle recognised in <ORG> (Supra) has no application to those appeals.
Argument	Learned counsel for the contesting resp ondents pointed out that there was delay in filing the Petitions for Special Leave to Appeal leading to those appeals.
Fact	But obviously, the delay was condoned and leave granted and we now have the three appeals before us for final hearing and disposal.
Fact	In these appeals, we have necessarily to examine the correctness and propriety of the directions issued by <ORG>.
Argument	6.
Argument	Admittedly, the lands were acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and an Award was passed.
Argument	According to the <ORG>, possession was taken after some delay in view of a number of Writ Petitions that were filed in <ORG> and the compensation payable under the Award had been deposited.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no material on the basis of which we can hold that the proceedings under the Land Acquisition Act had not been completed.
Argument	In fact, the prayer in the Writ Petition is for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the <ORG>, its officers and <ORG> to re-convey the property to the writ petitioners, the contesting respondents  herein though there is an assertion that the writ petitioners are in possession.
Argument	The learned single judge proceeded on the basis that the claim of the writ petitioners was for re- conveyance of the land under Section 48B of the Land Acquisition Act as inserted in the <ORG> of Tamil Nadu.
Argument	The question therefore is whether <ORG> was justified in directing the land to be re-conveyed in view of the specific stand adopted by <ORG> and the <ORG> that the Scheme was very much in operation that necessary plans have been prepared and the project got delayed only because of the judicial intervention.
Argument	We may also notice that it is the specific case of the appellants that in 1998, a claim for re-conveyance made had already been rejected.
Argument	The further contention by the <ORG> and the <ORG> was that possession of the lands having been made over to the Tamil Nadu Housing <ORG>, Section 48B of the Act could not be invoked or the <ORG> directed to re-convey the land to the writ petitioners.
Argument	The further sub mission was that Section 48B contemplated re-conveyance of land only to the original owner and not to anyone else and the writ petitioners were not the original owners from whom the land was acquired.
Argument	In fact, it was contended that the writ petitioners have not established that they were either the representatives or the successors-in-interest of the original owners.
Argument	It was asserted that, in fact, they were mere purchasers subsequent to the acquisition.
Argument	7.
Argument	The allegations in the writ petition show that the prayer made by the writ petitioners to the Government was for de-notifying the lands under Section 48 of the Act.
Argument	We think it proper to extract that allegation:  "I further state that I have given a representation to the Secretary to <ORG>, Chennai - 600 009 and Secretary to the Government, <ORG>., Fort St. George, Chennai  600 009, requesting them to take necessary steps by notifying under Section 48 of the Land Acquisition Act de-notifying or excludin g the lands.
Argument	But unfortunately, as far requisitions of the petitioners has not been considered favourably."
Statute	Section 48 of the Act reads as under:  "Sec.48.
Statute	Completion of acquisition not compulsory, but compensation to be awarded when not completed.
Statute	 (1) Except in the case provided for in Section 36 , the Government shall be at liberty to withdraw from the acquisition of any land which possession has not been taken.
Statute	2.
Statute	Whenever the Government withdraws from any such acquisition, the Collector shall determine the amount of compensation due for the damage suffered by the owner in consequence of the notice or of any proceedings thereunder, and shall pay such amount to the person interested, together with all costs reasonably incurred by him in the prosecution of the proceedings under this Act relating to the said land.
Argument	3.
Argument	The provision of Part III of this Act shall apply, so far as may be, to the determination of the compensation payable under this section."
Argument	On the facts pleaded it is doubtful whether the Go vernment can withdraw from the acquisition, since the case of the <ORG> and <ORG> is that possession has been taken and plans finalised to fulfil the purpose for which the acquisition was made.
Argument	There is no plea in the writ petition that a request for re- conveyance was made in terms of Section 48B of the Act as amended in the <ORG> of Tamil Nadu.
RulingByLowerCourt	The said provision reads:  "48-B.
RulingByLowerCourt	Transfer of land to original owner in certain cases- Where the <ORG> are satisfied that the land vested in the <ORG> under this Act is not required for the purpose for which it was acquired, or for any other public purpose, the <ORG> may transfer such land to the original owner who is willing to repay the amount paid to him under this Act for the acquisition of such land inclusive of the amount referred to in sub-section (1-A) and (2) of Section 23 , if any, paid under this Act."
RulingByLowerCourt	In the grounds in the writ petition it is only asserted that the writ petitioners are in possession in spite of the acquisition.
RulingByLowerCourt	There is no ground based on Section 48B of the Act though the prayer, as noticed earlier is for the issue of a writ of mandamus to reconvey the property.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is proper to notice that no foundation had been laid for seeking such a relief.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no plea of demand, no plea of refusal and no plea of a duty in the <ORG> to re- convey.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
Fact	We find from the order of the learned single judge dated 2.8.2001, in the Writ Petition, the following statement recorded:  "According to the petitioners the said lands were not put into use by the fourth respondent <ORG> for nearly 20 years.
Fact	In the above said circumstances, when the petitioners approached the respondents for re-conveyance of the property by virtue of Section 48B of the Land Acquisition Act, it was rejected by the respondent.
Fact	Again the petitioners made a representation to the respondents dated 18.3.98.
Fact	Since the said representation of the petitioners has not been disposed of, the present Writ Petition came to be filed seeking for the issuance of a writ of mand amus directing the respondents to re-convey the lands situated in Survey Nos.
Fact	237, 238/1, 238/2 and 238/3 of Padi Village, Ambattur Taluk, M.G.R.
Fact	District."
Argument	If the request of the writ petitioners for re-conveyance in terms of Section 48B of the Act stood rejected as apparently conceded by them before learned single judge, one finds it difficult to see how a second direction can be issued even in the absence of a challenge in the writ petition to the order of rejection and without examining the reasons contained therein.
Argument	That order was also binding on the writ petitioners, so long as it was not got rid of.
Argument	The order rejecting the request had become final and in a sense, it was not open to the learned single judge to issue the direction to consider an identical representation all over again.
Argument	<ORG> went one step further, we regret to say, without a proper consideration of the relevant aspects.
Argument	<ORG> apparently, even without giving <ORG> an opportunity of being he ard, proceeded at the stage of admission itself to direct re-conveyance of the lands to the writ petitioners, whether it be on the first date of hearing itself or on the subsequent date as contended by learned counsel for the contesting respondents.
Argument	If <ORG> felt that there was a case to be looked into, it should have admitted the writ appeal, issued rule nisi to the parties and thereafter heard the matter and disposed it of in the light of the relevant provisions of the Act, the law bearing on the subject and the facts obtaining.
Argument	Even when <ORG> got an opportunity to correct itself on being approached by way of review, it did not utilise that opportunity.
Argument	9.
Argument	It is clearly pleaded by the <ORG> and <ORG> that the Scheme had not been suspended or abandoned and that the lands acquired are very much needed for the implementation of the Scheme and the steps in that regard have already been taken.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the light of this position, it is not open to the court to assume  that the project has been abandoned merely because another piece of land in the adjacent village had been released from acquisition in the light of orders of court.
RatioOfTheDecision	It could not be assumed that the whole of the project had been abandoned or has become unworkable.
RatioOfTheDecision	It depends upon the purpose for which the land is acquired.
RatioOfTheDecision	As we see it, we find no impediment in the lands in question being utilised for the purpose of putting up a multi-storied building containing small flats, intended as the public purpose when the acquisition was notified.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, <ORG> clearly erred in proceeding as if the Scheme stood abandoned.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was an unwarranted assumption on the part of the court, which has no foundation in the pleadings and the materials produced in the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> should have at least insisted on production of materials to substantiate a claim of abandonment.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already noticed that in the Writ Petition, there are no sufficient allegations justifying interference by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mere claim o f possession by the writ petitioners is not a foundation on which the relief now granted could have been rested either by the learned single judge or by <ORG> of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the materials, no right to relief has been established by the writ petitioners.
RatioOfTheDecision	11.
RatioOfTheDecision	We may also notice that once a piece of land has been duly acquired under the Land Acquisition Act , the land becomes the property of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> can dispose of the property thereafter or convey it to anyone, if the land is not needed for the purpose for which it was acquired, only for the market value that may be fetched for the property as on the date of conveyance.
RatioOfTheDecision	The doctrine of public trust would disable the <ORG> from giving back the property for anything less than the market value.
Precedent	In <ORG> of Kerala & Ors.
Precedent	Vs. <NAME> & Anr.
Fact	[(1997) 5 S.C.C.
Fact	432] in a similar situation, this <ORG> observed:  "The question emerges: whether the Government can assign the land to the erstwhile owners?
RatioOfTheDecision	It is settled law that if  the land is acquired for a public purpose, after the public purpose was achieved, the rest of the land could be used for any other public purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	In case there is no other public purpose for which the land is needed, then instead of disposal by way of sale to the erstwhile owner, the land should be put to public auction and the amount fetched in the public auction can be better utilised for the public purpose envisaged in the Directive Principles of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case, what we find is that the executive order is not in consonance with the provision of the Act and is, therefore, invalid.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under these circumstances, <ORG> is well justified in declaring the executive order as invalid.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whatever assignment is made, should be for a public purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	Otherwise, the land of the <ORG> should be sold only through the public auctions so that the public also gets benefited by getting higher value."
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 48B introduced into the Act in the State of Tamil Nadu is an exception to this  rule.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a provision has to be strictly construed and strict compliance with its terms insisted upon.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether such a provision can be challenged for its validity, we are not called upon to decide here.
RatioOfTheDecision	12.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are thus of the view that the writ petitioners, the contesting respondents, have not made out any case for interference by the <ORG> or for grant of any relief to them.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is therefore not necessary for us to go into the further contention raised on the scope of Section 48B of the Act, whether the writ petitioners have established any claim to the lands, whether the re- conveyance can only be to the original owners and not to others and whether if possession has already been made over to <ORG>, the <ORG> could exercise its power under that provision.
RatioOfTheDecision	We leave open those questions for the High <ORG> to consider as and when the occasion arises on it being approached in the context of Section 48B of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Suffice it to say that the decision of the High <ORG> in the Writ Petition in questio n is totally unsustainable and deserves to be set aside.
RatioOfTheDecision	13.
RulingByPresentCourt	We therefore allow the appeals filed by the State of Tamil Nadu and set aside all the orders passed in the Writ Petition and in the writ appeal and in the contempt of court case.
RulingByPresentCourt	We dismiss the Writ Petition filed by the writ petitioners.
RulingByPresentCourt	In view of the above position, there is no need to pass any further order in the appeals filed by <ORG>.
RulingByPresentCourt	The above decision will govern <ORG> also.
RulingByPresentCourt	The State of Tamil Nadu would be entitled to its costs from the writ petitioners in its appeals and the parties would suffer their respective costs in the appeals filed by <ORG>.
