Fact	PETITIONER: MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY Vs. RESPONDENT: THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & INVESTMENT CO. PVT.
Fact	LTD. & ORS.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 06/09/1996 BENCH: <NAME>, K. BENCH: <NAME>, K. <NAME> S.B.
Fact	(J) CITATION: JT 1996 (8) 16 ACT: HEADNOTE: JUDGMENT:  J U D G M E N T S.B.
Fact	<NAME>, <NAME>I have gone through the judgment prepared by my esteemed learned Brother <NAME> J. I respectfully agree with the conclusion to the effect that respondents nos.
Argument	1 and 2 had missed the bus by adopting an indolent attitude in not challenging the acquisition proceedings promptly.
Argument	Therefore, the result is inevitable that the writ petition is liable to be dismissed on the ground of gross delay and laches.
Fact	However, I may mention at this stage that observations made by my learned brother <NAME> J., In connection with utilisation of land acquired under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act (hereinafter referred to as the 'M.R.T.P.
Fact	Act') for one public purpose to be used for another public purpose, ar e with great respect not found by me to be apposite.
Fact	I, therefore, record my reasons for the said view.
Fact	Even though the proposal under Section 126(1) is for acquisition of land for a specified public purpose, if the planning authority wants to acquire the land subsequently for any other public purpose earmarked in the modified scheme as has happened in the present case that is if the appellant <ORG> which had initially proposed to acquire the land for extension of sewerage treatment plant wanted subsequently to acquire the same land for its staff quarters then such a purpose must be specifically indicated in the plan meaning thereby that the land must be shown to be reserved for the staff quarters of the <ORG> and then <ORG> which had become the appropriate planning authority, i.e., <ORG> would be required to issue a fresh proposal under Section 126(1) read with Section 40(3)(e) and Section 116 of the M.R.T.P.
RatioOfTheDecision	Act and follow the gamut thereafter.
Fact	So long as that was  not done the earlier proposal under Section 126(1) and the consequential notification by the State Government under Section 126(2) which had lost their efficacy could not be revitalized.
Fact	I also do not subscribe to the general observation that a sitting tenant of the land which comes to be subjected to acquisition proceedings under Sections 4 and 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, in no case can challenge the said acquisition proceedings.
Fact	In appropriate cases such a challenge can be levelled by the concerned tenant having sufficient subsisting interest in the land.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my view, therefore, on merits the learned Single Judge as well as <ORG> had rightly held that respondent's writ petition had good case on merits.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, as the learned Single Judge dismissed the writ petition on the ground of delay and laches and his view was upset by <ORG> which according to me had not taken correct view on this score as held by my learned brother <NAME>, and with which view I respectfully con cur, I deem it fit to record my additional reasons for non-suiting the respondent-petitioners on that score.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is trite to observe that before the planning proposals for Bandra-Kurla Complex were finalised and published by the State of Maharashtra on 3rd May 1979, the requisite statutory procedure of Section 40 sub- <CITATION_24410899> , was necessarily followed by the Special <CITATION_24410899> , was necessarily followed by <ORG> and that happened between 7th March 1977 and 3rd May 1979.
RatioOfTheDecision	To recapitulate as per Section 40 sub-section 3(d) of the M.R.T.P.
RatioOfTheDecision	Act before submitting planning proposals to <ORG>., <ORG> has to carry out survey of the land and to prepare existing land-use map of the area, and to prepare and publish the draft proposal to the lands within its jurisdiction together with a notice in <ORG> and local newspapers in such manner as <ORG> may determine.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has also to invite objections and sugge stions from the public within the period of not more than 30 days from the date of notice in <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus these proposals are to be published not only in <ORG> but in local newspapers also.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, therefore, obvious that the proposals for changing the reservations of the concerned lands in the area and shifting of the sewage plant from Block 'H' to Block 'A' in the planning proposal for Bandra-Kurla Complex were published by <ORG> prior to 3rd May 1979 and after 7th March, 1977 when that authority was constituted.
Fact	When such proposals got published in local newspapers it is too much for the respondent-writ petitioners to submit that they never knew about these proposals and they came to know about these proposals only on 26th May 1983 when public notice was issued in <ORG> regarding the approval of these proposals by <ORG>, Even assuming that the respondent Nos.1 and 2 might have not read <ORG> at least notices issued in l ocal newspapers would not have escaped their attention in 1979.
Fact	By 1979, therefore, Respondents nos,1 and 2 must have known or with due diligence would have knows that there was a proposal to de-reserve their land from the earmarked purpose of extension of sewerage treatment plant of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	They may not object to such a favorable proposal but obviously they should be inquisite enough to know as early as between 1977 and 1979 that the could on their land was getting lifted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, they would have been put to the enquiry as to what happened to this proposal and what was the final outcome thereof.
Fact	Instead of bothering anyway about it, they just slumbered on and supported their claims for compensation before the Land Acquisition Officer under Section 9 of the Act, joined issues thereon in 1979 and onwards and allowed the award to be rendered as late on 24th February 1983.
Fact	Not only that they also allowed the possession to be taken by the <ORG> on 4th March 1983 though of course it was sym bolic possession as they were tenants in possession.
Fact	To add to this indolent conduct and connivance on the part of the respondent-writ petitioners, in these very acquisition proceedings, they filed reference application under Section 18 of the Land Acquisition Act on 7th April 1983 claiming additional compensation.
Fact	Thus upto 7th April 1983 they had no objection to their land had already got de-reserved for the extension of the sewage plant from being acquired and they concentrated on compensation only.
Argument	It is their own case that even on 10th January 1986 there was a meeting of <ORG> and in that meeting the members present had asked <ORG> to make statement on certain queries raised by him and one of the queries was about absence of proposals to have extension of Sewage Purification Plant, Dharavi.
Argument	This also shows that Respondent Nos.
Argument	1 and 2 were fully alive to the fact that there was no scope for extension of Dharavi Sewage Plant on their land.
Argument	Despite all these facts within the knowledge of the respondent nos.
Argument	1 & 2 they set on the fence and allowed the acquisition proceedings to continue and reach their terminus and even after award was passed and possession was taken by <ORG>, they staked their claims only for additional compensation.
Argument	It is only thereafter that they filed writ petition on 14th July 1983.
Argument	Such a belated writ petition, therefore, was rightly rejected by the learned single Judge on the ground of gross delay and laches.
Argument	The respondent-writ petitioners can be said to have waived their objections to the acquisition on the ground of extinction of public purpose by their own inaction, lethargy and indolent conduct.
Argument	The division bench of <ORG> had taken the view that because of their inaction no vested rights of third parties are created.
Argument	That finding is obviously incorrect for the simple reason that because of the indolent conduct of the writ petitioners land got acquired, award was passed, compensation was  handed over to various claimants including the landlord.
Argument	Reference applications came to be filed for larger compensation by claimants including writ petitioners themselves.
Argument	The acquired land got vested in <ORG>, and <ORG> free from all encumbrances as enjoined by Section 16 of the Land Acquisition Act.
Argument	Thus right to get more compensation got vested in diverse claimants by passing of the award, as well as vested right was created in favour of <ORG> by virtue of the vesting of the land in <ORG> for being handed over to the <ORG>.
Argument	All these events could not be wished away by observing that no third party rights were created by them.
Fact	The writ petition came to be filed after all these events had taken place.
Fact	Such a writ petition was clearly still borne due to gross delay and laches.
RulingByPresentCourt	I, therefore, respectfully agree with the conclusion to which my learned brother <NAME>, J. has reached that on the ground of delay and laches the writ pet ition is required to be dismissed and the appeal has to be allowed on that ground.
