Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, C.J.
Fact	1.
Fact	There are two appeals before us from a common judgment of <NAME>, by which the learned Judge dismissed both of two applications which the parties had made before him against each other in a suit in which one of them is the plaintiff and the other the defendant.
Fact	The applications were made in the following circumstances.
Fact	2.
Fact	On the 21st December 1953, an agreement was entered into at Bombay between one <NAME>, a cinema-actor and producer of films of that place, carrying on business under the name and style of <ORG> and <ORG>, a Calcutta firm carrying on the business of exhibiting and distributing films.
Fact	By the agree-men, <NAME> appointed- the firm, distributors for the territories of '<ORG> <ORG>', in respect of three motion pictures going to be produced by him immediately after the production of a film called 'Jhansi-hi-Rani' had been completed.
Fact	The appointment was for a period of seven years from the date of t he delivery of the first censored print of each of the three pictures.
Fact	Under the terms of the agreement, the distributors were to pay to the producer a certain sum in certain instalments and were to receive as their remuneration commission at certain rates.
Fact	Clause 22 of the agreement provided that, in addition to other remedies, the producer would have the right to terminate the agreement summarily and forfeit all sums paid to him by the distributors in the case of breach or non-performance of any of the conditions or in the case of default in making the stipulated payments or submitting statements of accounts.
Fact	Clause 28 of the agreement provided for the method by which the parties were to enforce their rights, if necessary.
Fact	It said inter alia that if either party proceeded in <ORG>, it must not do so at any place other than Bombay.
Fact	3.
Fact	On the same day, another- agreement was entered into by and between the same parties about the distribution rights of the same films on precisely the same terms and c onditions, except that the area covered by this agreement was 'the Bengal Circuit' and that the consideration to be paid to the producer was a different sum.
Fact	4.
Fact	Two days later, on the 24th December 1953, the producer wrote two letters to the distributors by which he authorised them to pay all moneys payable to him under the agreements to Messrs. <ORG>, New Queen's Road, Bombay.
Fact	On some date thereafter, the instalments by which the payments were to be made appear to have been varied by an agreement between the parties.
Fact	On the 8th of May 1954, there was a letter from the distributors to the producer which referred to that agreement and set out the instalments newly agreed to.
Fact	It appears that a sum of Rs.
Fact	5,78,750 was still payable by the distributors under the two agreements and that a sum was to be paid in eleven instalments of which the first three instalments of Rs.
Fact	60,000 each were to be paid on the 10th May 1954, the 15th June 1954 and the 15th July 1954, respectively.
Fact	The producer admitted t he new arrangement by endorsing his confirmation of the letter.
Fact	5.
Fact	The two instalments due on the 10th May 1954 and the 15th June 1954 were duly paid.
Fact	Before the date of the next instalment arrived, the distributors addressed a letter to the producer on the 23rd June 1954.
Fact	In the letter they stated that they had entered into the agreement on the representation made to them that one of the pictures would deal with a historical theme, another would deal with a social subject and the third would be a fantasy.
Fact	They were, they said, under the impression that of the two of the coming productions of which they had come to know, 'Waris' was a social picture and 'Mirza Galib' a fantasy, but they had seen in one of the letter-heads of the producer that the third picture was going to be 'Kundan'.
Fact	They therefore wanted to know if 'Kundan' would be a historical picture and if so, what historical event would be its subject-matter.
Fact	6.
Fact	The producer replied on the 28th June 1954, and stated that there had been no representa tion by him other than that contained in the agreement.
Fact	The productions, he added, were going to be exactly as stipulated for In the agreement which contained all his assurances and representations.
Fact	He concluded by saying that 'Waris' was a social picture, 'Mirza Galib' a historical biography and 'Kundan' a costume picture.
Fact	Thereafter, up to the 15th July 1954, some acrimonious correspondence between the parties followed, the distributors complaining of misrepresentation and seeking to avoid the agreements and the producer denying misrepresentation and complaining of default.
Fact	Apparently because ,,of that dispute, the instalment of Rs.
Fact	60,000 due on the 15th July 1954, was not paid.
Fact	Ultimately, by letter, dated the 19th July 1954 written through his solicitors, the producer terminated the agreements and notified forfeiture of all moneys paid by the distributors.
Fact	This was done in purported exercise of the powers reserved to the producer by Clause 22 of the agreements.
Fact	7.
Fact	Thereafter, on the 23rd July 1954, the  producer instituted a suit against the distribu-tors in <ORG> in his own name for the recovery of Rs.
Fact	60,000 with interest thereon or, in the alternative, damages of the same amount or any other amount that the <ORG> might adjudge, as also for a return of all publicity materials relating to the picture 'Waris' already supplied to the distributors.
Fact	By a letter of the same date, the solicitors for the producer gave intimation of the institution of his suit to the solicitors for the distributors which they received in Calcutta on the 26th July 1954.
Fact	The writ of summons issued was served upon a partner of the firm on the 11th August 1954.
Fact	8.
Fact	The reaction of the distributors was immediate.
Fact	On the 12th August 1954, they, in their turn, instituted a suit on the Original Side of this <ORG> against the producer and <ORG>, in which they claimed a decree for Rs.
Fact	4,71,250 of which a sum of Rs.
Fact	2,91,250 was claimed as refund of money paid under the agreements and a sum of Rs.
Fact	1,80,000 as dama ges for loss of profits.
Fact	An enquiry into damages and a decree for such Sum as might be found due were also prayed for.
Fact	9.
Fact	It will be convenient now to call the producer by his name '<NAME>' and the distributor by the first term of their firm name, '<ORG>'.
Fact	10.
Fact	In his suit filed at Bombay, <NAME>, referred to the agreements, complained of breaches of their terms, pleaded his termination of them and asked for the amount which had already accrued due or, in the alternative, damages.
Fact	He referred to the allegations of misrepresentation which had been made by <ORG> in their letters and denied the Same.
Fact	In their suit filed in Calcutta, <ORG> alleged false and fraudulent misrepresentation vitiating the agreements and rendering them void and on that basis asked for a refund of the moneys paid and also damages.
Fact	No reference was made in their plaint to the purported termination of agreements by <NAME> or to the suit instituted by him earlier at Bombay.
Fact	11.
Fact	On the 31st August 1954, <NAME> made an application in <ORG> ay <ORG> for an injunction, restraining <ORG> from proceeding with their suit in Calcutta so long as the Bombay suit was not disposed of.
Fact	An interim injunction wag granted by Coyajee, J., on the same day and it was made absolute on the 10th September ,1954.
Fact	<ORG> preferred an appeal against that order, but pending disposal of the appeal, filed their written statement in the Bombay suit on the 12th November 1954.
Argument	12.
Argument	The written statement of <ORG> pleaded fraudulent misrepresentation by which, it was alleged, the agreements had been brought about.
Argument	The agreements were therefore impugned as void and it was said that they had already been repudiated.
Fact	It was pleaded further that <ORG> themselves had become entitled to recover from <NAME> the Sum of Rs.
Fact	2,91,250 advanced to him, as on a failure of consideration or, in any event, as moneys had and received.
Fact	It was also said that the purported termination of the contracts on the 19th July 1954, had been wrongful, because the time for the payment of the th ird instalment had been extended up to that date.
Fact	13.
Fact	The appeal from the final order of injunction made by <NAME>, J., of <ORG> was disposed of by <ORG> on the 16th November 1954, when it was allowed and the injunction dissolved.
Argument	The trial Judge had held that <NAME>'s suit in Calcutta had been brought in violation of Clause 28 of the agreements and therefore they were liable to be restrained from proceeding with that suit.
Argument	<ORG> held that Clause 28 would apply only when the parties wanted to litigate their rights under the agreements.
Argument	The Calcutta suit had been brought, not to enforce any such rights, but on the other hand, to avoid the agreements altogether.
Argument	The learned Chief Justice added that the <ORG> could not exercise its inherent jurisdiction by way of restraining a party to a suit before it from proceeding with a subsequent suit instituted by him in another <ORG>.
Argument	If the two suits were based on the same cause of action, the defendant in the subsequently ins tituted suit might seek his remedy under Section 10 of the Civil Procedure Code, but if the causes of action were different and consequently Section 10 did not apply, there would be no reason for the <ORG> to restrain the prosecution of a different and subsequent suit, brought on a different cause of action.
Argument	14.
Fact	It was after the dissolution of the injunction issued by the Bombay High <ORG> that the two applications out of which the present appeals arise were made in the suit filed in this <ORG>.
Fact	On the 29th November 1954, <NAME> made an application for an injunction, restraining <NAME> from proceeding with the Bombay suit.
Fact	<NAME> replied on the 17th December 1954 by making an application of his own for revocation of the leave granted under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent and, alternatively, for a stay of further proceedings in the suit under Section 10 of the Civil Procedure Code.
Fact	By an order passed on the 28th March 1955, <NAME>, dismissed both the applications.
Fact	15.
Fact	Appeal No.
Fact	64 of 1955 has been  preferred by <NAME> against the dismissal of his application directed at the Calcutta suit.
Fact	Appeal No.
Fact	80 of 1955 has been preferred by <NAME> against the dismissal of their application for an injunction restraining further prosecution of the suit in <ORG>.
Fact	16.
Fact	The decision of Mukharji, J., compris-es three orders: an order refusing to issue an injunction against <NAME>, restraining him from prosecuting the Bombay suit; an order refusing to revoke the leave granted under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent; and an order refusing to stay the Calcutta suit under Section 10 of the Civil Procedure Code.
Fact	A preliminary objection was taken in Appeal No.
Fact	64 of 1955 that no appeal lay under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent from either of the last two orders.
Fact	In Appeal No.
Fact	80 of 1955, it was contended that no appeal lay from the first order either.
Argument	17.
Argument	I do not consider it necessary to decide whether an appeal lies against the order refusing to issue an injunction against <NAME>, restraining him from proceeding  with the Bombay suit.
Argument	It was alleged that the suit was not a bona fide suit, but had been brought maliciously in order to forestall <NAME> who, it must have been known, were bound to institute the Calcutta suit and that the object was also to cause harassment to them.
Argument	I agree entirely with the learned Judge that there is no ground whatsoever for treating the earlier suit of <NAME> as a <NAME> fide suit.
Argument	He has pleaded two business agreements which are not denied, set out the letters passed between the parties which are also not denied and asked the Court to decide whether or not, on the facts pleaded by him, he is entitled to the reliefs claimed.
Argument	The allegation of misrepresentation on which <NAME> have founded their own suit was not concealed in <NAME>'s plaint, but was expressly referred to and thus an opportunity was openly extended to them to prove their allegation, it they could, and defeat the suit.
Argument	Like the learned trial Judge, I see no trace whatsoever of any <NAME> fides in <NAME>'s suit in Bombay and no rea son to restrain its further prosecution by an injunction.
Argument	Appeal No.
Precedent	80 of 1955 must fail on the merits and therefore it is not necessary to consider whether it is maintainable in law or not.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	As to Appeal No.
Precedent	64 of 1955, it is really directed, as I have already said, against two orders.
Argument	Unfortunately, there is even no mention of the prayer for revocation of leave in the learned Judge's judgment, although it was the first prayer in the Notice of Motion, It was not contended by the respondents that the prayer had been abandoned.
Argument	Since the relief prayed for was not granted, it must be deemed to have been refused.
Precedent	There is no similar difficulty about the prayer for a stay of the suit which was dealt with by the learned Judge at length and refused.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	To take the order under Section 10 of the Civil Procedure Code first, it is not an order granting a stay of a suit, but an order refusing to stay it.
Precedent	Such an order was held to be appealable under the Letters Patent _by <ORG>, in Jivanlal Narsi  v. <NAME>.
Precedent	<ORG>, ILR 57 Bom 364: (AIR 1933 Bom 85) (A), and the decision was followed by <ORG>, in Durga Prasad v. Kanti Chandra Mukherji .
Precedent	<NAME>, J., expressed no opinion on the point, as the contention that no appeal lay had ultimately not been pressed.
Precedent	<CITATION_1382729> .
Precedent	, <ORG> again held that an order refusing stay of a suit under Section 10 of the Code was appealable.
Precedent	On the other hand, in <NAME> v. <ORG> <ORG>, ILR 12 Rang 687: (AIR 1935 Hang 73 (1) ) (D), <ORG> held that an order under Section 10 of the Code, staying the hearing of a suit, was not appealable, but it preferred to reserve its opinion as to whether an appeal would lie from an order refusing stay.
Precedent	<CITATION_1420599> ., , <ORG> of <ORG> held that an order under Section 10 or any other provision of law for the stay of the trial of a suit was not appealable under the Letters Patent.
Precedent	20.
Precedent	Whether or not an appeal lies und er Clause 15 of the Letters Patent from any particular order depends upon whether the order is a 'judgment' within the meaning of Clause 15.
RatioOfTheDecision	The term 'Judgment' has been defined in the Civil Procedure Code, but that definition does not apply to the word, as occurring in the Letters Patent.
RatioOfTheDecision	The language of the Letters Patent which were issued in 1865 is not the language of <ORG>, but the language of English lawyers as it was in use amongst them before the words 'judgment', 'decree' and 'order' came to be clearly differentiated after the passing of the Judicature Acts.
RatioOfTheDecision	If one wanted to ascertain what the framers of the Letters Patent had really in mind when they used the word 'judgment', one would perhaps have to make a search in the vocabulary of old English lawyers, as appearing in contemporary rules and judicial decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	But such search is no longer necessary because, by reason of judicial interpretation, the term, as used in the Letters Patents, <ORG>, has now acquired an Ind ian meaning.
Precedent	The two leading decisions are <ORG> for Calcutta v. <ORG>, 8 Beng LR 433 (F), a decision of this Court, given in 1872 and <CITATION_497890> 35 Mad 1 (G), a decision of <ORG>, given in 1910.
Precedent	To that must now be added the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1997407> , , which is itself an interpretation of the two leading <ORG> decisions in their application to a particular type of order.
Precedent	All other decisions that can be found in the books justify themselves by referring to one or other of the above decisions ,or some part or other of them.
Precedent	21.
Precedent	The test, according to the Calcutta decision, is that in order to be a 'judgment', a decision must affect 'the merits of the question between the parties by determining some right or liability', although it may be either a final judgment, determining the whole cause or suit or a preliminary or interlocutory judgment, determining only a part of it, leaving other matters to be determined.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Madra s test is not wholly different but is a variant of the Calcutta test.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to it, the effect of the order on the relevant suit or proceeding must be seen and if the effect is to put an end to the suit or proceeding, so far as the Court making the order is concerned, or if the effect be such that in case the order is not complied with, the suit or proceeding will end, it will be a 'judgment'.
RatioOfTheDecision	To that test there is a corollary.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the order is made on an independent proceeding which is ancillary to the suit and aims at rendering the judgment effective in case a judgment is obtained, such as an application for an interim injunction or for the appointment of a Receiver, then such an order also will be a 'judgment'.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be seen that the second type of order admitted by the <ORG> test into the category of 'judgments' will not terminate the Suit or proceeding, nor can it strictly be said that it will affect the merits of the question between the parties by determining some right or liability, as required b y the Calcutta test.
RatioOfTheDecision	On a strict construction of the Calcutta test, the right or liability must mean some right or liability which is a 'subject-matter of controversy in the suit or proceeding, but in its application to individual cases, that strict construction has not been adhered to and was indeed often departed from by <NAME>, C. J., himself who was the author of the test.
RatioOfTheDecision	Orders concerning the jurisdiction of the <ORG> to entertain a suit, as distinguished from matters of the actual dispute between the parties, were held by him to come within the category of judgments.
RatioOfTheDecision	22.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Supreme <ORG> had before it an order, made under Clause 13 of the Letters Patent, by which this High <ORG> had transferred to itself a suit pending in a subordinate <ORG> for trial in its Extraordinary Original Jurisdiction.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> refrained from giving ah exhaustive definition of the word 'judgment' as used in Clause 15 of the Letters Patent.
RatioOfTheDecision	They dealt only with the order before them and held that no appeal lay from it for thr ee reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	The order did not affect the merits of the controversy between the parties in the suit itself, nor did it terminate or dispose of the suit on any ground, nor was it at all an order made by the <ORG> in which the suit was pending.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was only an order made by a superior <ORG>, by which a live suit was transferred from one forum to another.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears to me that since the Supreme <ORG> did not frame an exhaustive definition of the word 'judgment' which would be applicable in all cases, it would not be correct to hold that no order can be a 'judgment', if any of the negative reasons given by the Supreme <ORG> for holding the order before them to be not appealable, applies.
RatioOfTheDecision	23.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the somewhat indeterminate terms in which the tests laid down in the two leading High <ORG> decisions were framed, the task of deciding whether a particular order is or is not a judgment is not easy.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it appears to me that at least where a question of the jurisdiction of the <ORG> to entertain or proceed with a s uit or proceeding is involved and a decision on that question is given, such decision affects the merits of the controversy between the parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that it does not touch the actual dispute regarding the respective rights and liabilities which is the subject-matter of the suit or proceeding, but whether those rights and liabilities can be adjudicated on by a particular <ORG> at all or adjudicated on at the time, is also a matter of controversy between the parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	To be entitled to have one's suit or proceeding decided by a particular <ORG> or to be entitled to object that a suit or proceeding brought by one's adversary cannot be tried or tried for the time being by the <ORG> in which it has been brought is, it seems to me, also a matter of right.
RatioOfTheDecision	To refuse to stay a suit under Section 10 is to uphold the right of the plaintiff to have his suit tried without interruption in the forum of his choice and to negative the defendant's claim to have the subject-matter tried by the other <ORG> where he has br ought his own suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	I think where a <ORG> makes an order for stay, the position is clear, because although the suit does not terminate by reason of such an order, it is suspended ail the same and the suspension may be termination for all practical purposes, unless the other suit fails for non-prosecution or the matter is not decided in it.
RatioOfTheDecision	In any event, such an order affects the jurisdiction of the <ORG> to try the suit, although the bar created may be temporary.
RatioOfTheDecision	But an order refusing a stay also involves assumption of jurisdiction and in so far as it negatives the defendant's contention that the Suit cannot be proceeded with and upholds the plaintiffs claim that the suit must proceed, it seems to me that it affects the merits of a part of- the controversy between the parties, the particular controversy being a controversy in the suit as to where the subject-matter should be tried.
RatioOfTheDecision	I have already pointed out that the test laid down by the Calcutta decision has always been regarded as flexible, at least to thi s extent that, besides orders affecting merits of the disputes between the parties, orders concerning the jurisdiction of a <ORG> to entertain or try a dispute has always been held to be judgments.
Precedent	In , Beaumont, <NAME>, observed as follows:--  "It appears to me that a decision of the Judge, either to allow or to refuse a stay under that section is a decision which in fact goes to the jurisdiction of the <ORG>.
Precedent	If the case is brought within Section 10, then the <ORG> has no jurisdiction to proceed with the trial of this suit, so long as the earlier suit is pending; and when the earlier suit is determined, the matter in issue in this suit will probably be res judicata.
Precedent	Therefore, the decision of the Judge under Section 10 really determines the rights of the plaintiffs to sue in this <ORG>; and it seems to me that such a decision is a 'judgment' within Clause 15 of the Letters Patent and the authorities under that clause and that such a decision is not a mere order relating to procedure in the suit."
Precedent	24.
Precedent	These  reasons were adopted or similar reasons were given in the other decisions to which I have referred where it was held that an order under Section 10 of the Code was a 'judgment'.
Precedent	25.
RatioOfTheDecision	Proceeding from what I have so far said, I think I can reasonably go a little further.
RatioOfTheDecision	An order staying a suit under Section 10 of the Code can be said to affect even the actual dispute between the parties on the merits, because it compels the plaintiff to take the decision of the other <ORG> on the questions in controversy, however they may be decided, instead of the decision of the <ORG> of his choice which might well have been different.
RatioOfTheDecision	The merits of a controversy are, till they are decided, only claims and it is the decision of the <ORG> which determines the merits and thus affects them.
RatioOfTheDecision	26.
RatioOfTheDecision	Relegation to the sole decision of an-other <ORG> of the questions in controversy in a suit, which a stay order under Section 10 means and involves, does therefore affect the merits.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision of the other <ORG> will operate as res j udicata and by so operating, affect the merits of the controversy in the suit that is stayed.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, an order, refusing a stay, consigns the parties to the possibility of having conflicting declarations as to their rights and liabilities from two different <ORG> and thereby affects the merits of questions in controversy by making it probable that the merits will be differently adjudged.
RatioOfTheDecision	This however will happen only when an order refusing a stay is wrongly made in spite of the other suit being earlier and involving the same subject-matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it must be remembered that an appeal is always on the ground that the order Sought to be appealed from is erroneous.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME> case (H), the jurisdiction of <ORG> was certainly affected by the order of transfer, but there was no question ,of the decision of one <ORG> operating as res judicata as to the questions in controversy before another <ORG>, nor any question of conflicting decision's on the merits.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	For the foregoing reasons I  hold that the order of <NAME> J., in so far as it is an order refusing a stay of <NAME>'s suit, is appealable.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	The other order is an order refusing revocation of the leave granted under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent.
Precedent	As to whether such an order is appealable, there is a direct authority in <CITATION_212413> , 13 Beng LR 91 (I), where it was held that an order, refusing to rescind a leave granted under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent, was appealable.
RatioOfTheDecision	The head-note stating that the order appealed from was an order granting leave is wrong, as will appear from pp.
RatioOfTheDecision	93 and 94 of the report.
Precedent	In holding that an appeal lay from the order, <NAME>, C. J., with whom <ORG>, agreed, observed as follows:--  "It is not a mere formal order merely regulating the procedure in a suit, but one that has the effect of giving a jurisdiction to the <ORG> which it otherwise would not have and it may fairly be said to determine some right between them, viz., the right to sue in a particular <ORG> and to compel t he defendants who are not within its jurisdiction, to come in and defend the suit, or if they do not, to make them liable to have a decree passed against them in their absence."
Precedent	29.
Precedent	In <NAME> case (H), <ORG> had occasion to refer to orders of leave granted under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent and orders refusing to revoke such leave and in that context they referred to this decision.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that they disapproved of its application to orders passed under Clause 13 of the Letters Patent, but they did not say that even as regards orders under Clause 12, it was wrong.
RatioOfTheDecision	As to the general question regarding orders under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent, <NAME> observed as follows:--  "Leave granted under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent constitutes the very foundation of the suit which is instituted on its basis.
RatioOfTheDecision	If such leave is rescinded, the suit automatically comes to an end and there is no doubt that such an order would be a judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	If, on the other hand, an order is made, dis missing the Judge's summons to show cause why the leave should not be rescinded, the result is ,as Sir <NAME> pointed out, <NAME> v. <NAME>, ILR 29 Bom 249 (J), that a decision on a vital point adverse to the defendant which goes to the very root of the suit becomes final and decisive against him, so far as the <ORG> making the order is concerned.
Precedent	This brings the order within the category of a judgment as laid down in the Calcutta cases."
Precedent	30.
Argument	It was contended on behalf of the appellant that <ORG> were approving of what they set out as the view of Sir <NAME>, because they used the expression 'the result is, as Sir <NAME> pointed out' and, therefore, they were quoting what Sir <NAME> had said with approval.
RatioOfTheDecision	I cannot accept that contention, be-rause the judgment proceeds to say that the <ORG> was not expressing any final opinion as to the propriety or otherwise of the view expressed by Sir <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words 'as Sir <NAME> pointed out' mere ly mean 'according to Sir <NAME>' or 'as it has been put by Sir <NAME>'.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the fact remains that <ORG> did not disapprove of the decision in 13 Beng LR 91 (I).
Precedent	Otherwise too, I find, nothing in the principles laid down in <ORG>'s judgment which requires or authorises me to dissent from the earlier decision in 13 Beng LR 91 (I), which was also a decision of <ORG> and with the reasoning of which I respectfully agree.
Precedent	I would therefore hold that the order of <NAME>, in so far as it impliedly refused to revoke the leave granted under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent, is also appealable.
Precedent	31.
Precedent	In the Madras Full Bench case of , the following observation about the judgment of <ORG> occurs in the judgment of <NAME>, J.
Precedent	"It also held that an order refusing to rescind leave to sue granted under Clause 12 of the Letters Pa-tent was hot a judgment under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent."
Precedent	With respect, that observation does not appear to  be correct  32.
Precedent	I have now to proceed to consider the appeal on the merits.
Precedent	As regards the refusal to revoke leave, I have already pointed out that the learned Judge has not, unfortunately, mentioned the prayer for revocation and necessarily has given no reasons for not giving effect to it.
Precedent	He might have thought that the prayer was plainly not maintainable, but whether or not he took that view, does not appear.
Precedent	33.
Precedent	As regards the order made under Section 10, it appears to me, if I may say so.
Precedent	with respect, that the learned Judge was under a mis-apprehension.
Precedent	He thought that since the decision of <ORG> was a decision binding on the parties and by that decision it had been held that the two suits were based on different causes of action, it was no longer open to him to apply Section 10 of the Civil Procedure Code.
Precedent	That view of the <NAME>y-judgment is hot correct, although I am free to confess, again with respect, that I find some confusion of language in the appellate judgment of the <NAME> y <ORG>.
Precedent	The scheme of the judgment, however, is clear.
Precedent	The learned Chief Justice first points out that Clause 28 of the agreements cannot apply, because, the Calcutta suit was not a suit under the agreements, but a suit de hors them.
Precedent	It was also a subsequently instituted suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	If Clause 28 of the agreements was not attracted, there was no reason to injunct the Calcutta plaintiff against proceeding with his suit on the ground that he had brought it in breach of the agreement.
RatioOfTheDecision	Again, since his was a subsequently instituted suit, there could be no question of his having made an attempt to forestall the Bombay plaintiff, either for the purpose of harassing him by instituting a Suit in an inconvenient forum or for the purposes of acquiring the advantage of Section 10.
RatioOfTheDecision	If Section 10 applied, it would hit the Calcutta suit rather than the Bombay suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Chief Justice then proceeds to say that if the two suits had been filed 'on the same cause of action' -- as to which he was expressing no opinion --  then the Bombay plaintiff might proceed in Calcutta under Section 10 and try to get the defendant's Calcutta suit Stayed.
RatioOfTheDecision	I do not know why the learned Chief Justice used the expression 'cause of action', because Section 10 speaks of not 'cause of action' but of 'matter directly and substantially in issue'.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also not clear how two persons, quarrelling over the same transaction and bringing separate suits with respect to it against each other, can have the same 'cause of action'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Be that as it may, what the learned Chief Justice means is that since the Calcutta suit was a subsequent suit, if could be stayed, if at all, by <ORG> under Section 10 of the Civil Procedure Code and the Bombay plaintiff ought to seek that remedy in Calcutta.
Argument	It was argued on behalf of the Bombay plaintiff that the Calcutta suit would fall under Section 10 and the Bombay plaintiff might undoubtedly invoke the aid of that section, but he might also ask for relief from <ORG> by way of an injunction agai nst the Calcutta plaintiff issued in the exercise of the <ORG>'s inherent jurisdiction.
RatioOfTheDecision	That contention was repelled.
Precedent	The learned Chief Justice states that however wide the powers of the <ORG> under Section 151 may be, they do not extend to the <ORG> granting relief under its inherent jurisdiction, when the same relief can be granted by another <ORG> under the express provisions of the Code.
Precedent	It would thus appear that what the Bombay High <ORG> said was that if Section 10 of the Civil Procedure Code applied to the two" suits -- about which it was expressing no opinion -- the Bombay plaintiff might seek his remedy under that section in this <ORG>.
Precedent	It is true that the ground for the application of Section 10 was inaccurately stated when the learned Chief Justice was referring to the hypothetical case of the section being applicable to the two suits.
Precedent	But he did not refuse an injunction on the finding that the Bombay plaintiff had an alternative remedy in Section 10 of the Code, as thought by the learned Judge, ho lding thereby that the subject-matter of the two suits or their 'causes of action' were identical, but he did so on the ground that the Calcutta suit was a subsequent suit and therefore it could not be stayed by an injunction and he added that the plaintiff might seek his relief in Calcutta under Section 10, if that section applied.
RatioOfTheDecision	The only positive opinion expressed by the learned Chief Justice, was that the Calcutta suit was not a Suit for the enforcement of rights under the contract, but it was a suit for avoiding the contract.
RatioOfTheDecision	He does not appear to have said anything about the nature of the Bombay suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	But assuming that he did say that the Bombay suit was a suit under the contract for the enforcement of rights conferred thereby, I am unable to see that the matter in issue in the two suits might not yet be substantially the same, though different reliefs might have been claimed by the two different plaintiffs on the basis of their respective cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that no written statement has yet been filed  in the Calcutta suit, but what the defence in the Calcutta suit will be is fairly clear from the plaint in the Bombay suit itself as also the application made to this Court by <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the Calcutta plaintiff's defence in the Bombay suit is substantially his plaint in the Calcutta suit and if the Bombay plaintiff's defence in the Calcutta suit is virtually his plaint in the Bombay suit, the matter in issue between the parties in the two suits would seem to be substantially the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact that one is a suit under the agreements and the other is a suit de hors the agreements does not make a substantial identity of the subject-matter per se impossible.
RatioOfTheDecision	The basis of the defence in the Bombay suit and the basis of the claim in the Calcutta suit appear to be both fraudulent misrepresentation and if the defence succeeds in Bombay, nothing will be left of that suit and, similarly, if in consequence the case of misrepresentation succeeds in Calcutta, this suit will be practically decided, the only, enquiry remainin g being an enquiry as to the damages claimed in addition to a refund of the money paid.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, again, if the defence fails in the Bombay suit, the basis of the Calcutta suit will be wholly destroyed.
Precedent	In my view, the principal matter in issue in the Calcutta suit is directly and substantially in issue in the Bombay suit, which is a suit previously instituted and that an un-necessary duplication of proceedings with the possibility of conflicting decisions being rendered will occur, if the Calcutta suit is not stayed.
Precedent	34.
Precedent	It remains to refer to one other matter.
Precedent	The learned Judge has also given it as a reason for refusing to stay the suit before him under Section 10 that there is an additional party in that suit.
Precedent	That, by itself, does not make Section 10 inapplicable.
Precedent	It is true that the section speaks of 'same parties', but it has been held that the 'same parties' mean 'the parties as between whom the matter substantially in issue has arisen and has to be decided'.
Precedent	Complete identity of either the subject-m atter or the parties is not required.
Precedent	Authority for that proper sition will be found in (Six parties in one Suit and five parties in another); and <CITATION_1838116> 42 All 290: (AIR 1920 All 70) (K); ; and <ORG> v. <NAME>, ILR (1948) Nag 403: (AIR 1948 Nag 297) (L).
Argument	The additional party impleaded in the Calcutta suit is the company <ORG>, to which the payments due to <NAME> under the agreements were to be made.
RatioOfTheDecision	No allegation is made against the company except that some money was paid to it and that it was a party to and knew of the misrepresentations made by <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	I do not think that the joinder of <ORG>, on such allegations raises any separate and substantial issue as between it and the <ORG> so as to make Section 10 inapplicable.
Precedent	35.
Precedent	As to the prayer for revocation of leave, I see no reason to grant it.
Precedent	The plaintiff has made a case in the plaint, according to which a part of the cause of action did arise in Calcutta.
Precedent	Since the suit is being stayed and the main questio n will be tried at Bombay, the question of convenience hardly survives.
Precedent	36.
Precedent	In the result, Appeal No.
Precedent	64 of 1955 is allowed in part.
Precedent	The order of the learned Judge, dated the 28th April 1953, in so far as, by it, he refused to stay the present Suit under Section 10 of the Code is set aside and it is directed that the suit be and do remain stayed so long as the Bombay suit, viz., Suit No.
RulingByPresentCourt	1069/X of 1954, may remain pending.
RulingByPresentCourt	The rest of the order is upheld.
RulingByPresentCourt	Costs of this appeal, which will be half-costs, will be costs in the suit.
Precedent	Certified for two counsel.
Precedent	37.
RulingByPresentCourt	Appeal No.
RulingByPresentCourt	80 of 1955 is dismissed with costs.
RulingByLowerCourt	The undertaking given by the Respondent No.
RulingByLowerCourt	1 not to proceed with the Bombay suit will stand discharged.
Precedent	Certified for two counsel.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	38.
RulingByPresentCourt	I agree.
