Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Argument	1.
Argument	At the instance of the assessee in T.C.
Argument	Nos.
Argument	114 to 119 of 1979, under section 256(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act"), he following question of law in respect of the assessment years 1969-70 to 1974-75, has been referred for the opinion of this court :  "Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, <ORG> was right in holding that the share income of the trust should be assessed in the hands of the assessee ?"
Argument	2.
Precedent	The same question for the same assessment years has been referred under section 256(1) of the Act at the instance of the assessee in T.C.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	108 to 112 of 1979.
Precedent	3.
Precedent	The assessee in T.C.
Precedent	Nos.
Argument	114 to 119 of 1979, one <NAME> created a trust by name "<ORG>" by means of a deed dated October 14, 1968.
Argument	On the same day, his wife, <NAME>, created another trust by name "<ORG>".
Precedent	In the first trust, the assessee in T.C.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	114 to 119 of 1979 had a 5/34ths share and in the second a 10/75 ths  share.
Precedent	The assessee in T.C.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	108 to 112 of 1979, <NAME>, had a 10/34ths and 15/75ths share, respectively, in the two trusts.
Precedent	The first trust was created for the benefit of the prospective wife of the minor son of <NAME>, viz., <NAME>.
Fact	Likewise, the second trust was created for the benefit of the would be wife of <NAME>, another minor son of <NAME>.
Fact	The provision was made in the first trust deed that if <NAME> did not get married before attaining the age of 30, or died without marrying, the corpus of the trust as well as the accretions should be conveyed to the other son, <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the second trust deed also, a similar provision was made thif <NAME> did not get married before attaining the age of 30 or died without marrying, the amounts set apart under the trust with the accumulated income should be conveyed to the other son, <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the course of the assessment proceedings for the years in question, the Income-tax Officer assessed the share income of the assessees from the trust funds in th eir hands on the ground that the trusts depended upon an uncertain event, viz., the marriage of <NAME> and <NAME> and that the beneficiaries were also uncertain.
RulingByLowerCourt	On appeal by the assessees, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, purporting to follow the decision of the <ORG> in I.T.A.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	261 to 263/Mds/1974-75 dated April 28, 1976 (a reference from which was dealt with and answered by this court in the decision reported in <CITATION_476389> ), held that the trusts were valid and that the share income from both the trusts cannot be assessed in the hands of the assessees.
Precedent	On further appeals before the <ORG>, at the instance of the <ORG>, it was contended on behalf of the <ORG> on the strength of another decision of the <ORG> in I.T.A.
Precedent	Nos.
Argument	1617, 1618 and 2233/Mads/1976-77 dated November 19, 1977, that the share income from the two trusts should be assessed in the hands of the assessee.
Argument	The assessees, however, maintained that the share income from the trusts could not be assessed in their hands.
Argument	Ref erring to the clauses in the trust deeds, the <ORG> took the view that in both the trust deeds, there is no provision as to what should happen in the event of <NAME> and Ashok not being in existence at a time when they may become entitled to take the corpus and the accretions and that the trusts would, therefore, fail and under section 83 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882, there would be a resulting trust in favour of the author of the trust and his wife, in which case, there could not be a transfer of the amounts set apart under the two trust deeds and the share income from the trust funds necessarily had to be assessed in the hands of the assessees.
Argument	4.
Argument	Learned counsel for the assessees contended that the <ORG> fell into an error in applying section 83 of the Indian Trusts Act and that the share income of the assessees from the trust cannot be assessed in their hands, as it cannot be postulated that the trust is incapable of execution, especially when some of the events contemplated under the provisions  of the respective trust deeds have not happened during the relevant assessment years is question.
Argument	Learned counsel also submitted that <NAME> and <NAME> got married and there was thus no possibility of any resulting trust at all attracting the application of section 83 of the Indian Trusts Act.
Argument	Strong reliance was also placed by learned counsel upon the decision in <CITATION_476389> .
Argument	On the other hand, learned counsel for the <ORG> contended that the trusts in question would fail, in the event of <NAME> and <NAME> not being in existence at that point of time contemplated under the relevant clauses of the trust deeds and that it would have the effect of creating a resulting trust in favour of the assessee and his wife as to justify the assessment of the share income of the assessees in the trust funds in their hands.
Fact	Reference was also made in this connection to the decision reported as <CITATION_159485> .
Fact	5.
Fact	We may now refer to the relevant clauses, viz., clauses (5) and (6) in the deed creating "<NAME> Trus t" dated October 14, 1968, executed by <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	They run as follow :  "(5) As soon as he said <NAME> gets married, the capital amount together with all its accretions accrued and earned up to that date including the balance of income that had arisen thereon shall be conveyed by the trustees to the said wife of <NAME> absolutely, provided she is of 21 years of age, otherwise the same shall be conveyed to her on her attaining the age of 21 years.
Fact	(6) If <NAME> does not get married before attaining the age of 30, as contemplated in the earlier clauses or dies without marrying, the trustees shall convey the capital amounts with all he income accumulated therefrom to my son, <NAME>, who shall be entitled to hold and enjoy the same absolutely."
Argument	6.
Argument	There is no dispute that in the trust deed executed by Smt.
Argument	<NAME> on October 14, 1968, creating "<ORG>", there is a similar provision.
Argument	The Income-tax Officer was of the view that the trusts so created are invalid for uncertainty and that the beneficiaries  under the trusts are also uncertain and unknown and on that reasoning, the share income of the assessees in the trust funds was assessed in their hands.
Precedent	However, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner took a contra view on the strength of the decision of the <ORG> in Second ITO v. <NAME> (I.T.A.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	261 to 263/Mad/1974-75).
Precedent	We may point out that the decision of the <ORG> in I.T.A.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	261 to 263/Mds/1974-75 was the subject-matter of a reference in T.C.
Precedent	Nos.
RulingByLowerCourt	1019, 1020 and 1045 of 1977 and this court had occasion to consider the validity of the trust in those references.
Fact	The decision thereon is reported in <CITATION_476389> relied on by learned counsel for the assessees.
Fact	In that case also, two trusts were created by the assessee and his wife for the benefit of the prospective wives of their two minor sons and cash gifts were made to the two trusts on various dates by the assessee and his wife.
Fact	The Income-tax Officer subjected to tax the proportionate share income of the trust in the hands of the ass essee on the ground that the trusts were invalid, but the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, on appeal, held that the trusts in favour of the prospective daughters-in-law were valid.
Fact	The <ORG> took the view that the trusts were valid and, consequently, the share income of the assessee in the trusts could not be included in the income of the assessee While dealing with the reference in <CITATION_476389> , it was pointed out that to constitute a valid trust, the author of the trust must indicate with reasonable certainty his intention to create a trust, the purpose of the trust, the beneficiary, the trust property and also the transfer of the property to that trust and that though it is not possible to say at the stage of the execution of the trust as to who is the actual person who is to be benefited by the trust, so long as the trust deed gives the description of the person to be benefited, the beneficiary cannot be said to be uncertain or that the trust would be otherwise invalid.
Fact	It was also laid down tha t the initial object of the trust is to benefit the would-be daughter-in-law through the second son and if that failed for the reason that he did not marry during his lifetime, the other beneficiary would be the would-be daughter-in-law through the first son and only if those clauses failed, hen, the question would arise whether the ultimate object was either vague or indefinite and that with reference to the beneficiaries, who are either named or can be ascertained, the trust cannot be said to be invalid.
Fact	In this case also, under clause 6 of the deed of trust, referred to earlier, provision is made to the effect that if <NAME> did not get married before attaining the age of 30 or died without marrying, then, he trustees were directed to convey the capital amount as well as the accretions to the other son, <NAME>.
Precedent	Similarly, in the other trust deed relating to "<NAME> Trust", executed by the wife of the assessee in T.C.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	114 to 119 of 1979, a similar provision has been made to the effect that if <NAME> d id not get married before attaining the age of 30 or died without marrying, the amounts set apart together with the accretions should be conveyed to the other son, <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is seen that in clause 5 of the respective trust deeds, the beneficiary has been indicated with certainty, though the identity could get fixed only on the marriage of <NAME> and <NAME> taking place, in which case, their respective wives would be entitled to the trust funds with the accretions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The beneficiaries under clause 5 of the trust deeds having been indicated with reasonable certainty, the trusts cannot be held to fail for want of certainty about the beneficiary.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clause 6 of the respective trust deeds merely provided for a contingency which may or may not arise and in the events that have happened, could not have arisen at all, as it was stated at the bar that <NAME> and <NAME> go married and this has not been disputed.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is, therefore, no scope whatever for clause 6 of the respective trust deeds coming into force.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are of the  view that the <ORG> was clearly in error in applying section 83 of the Indian Trusts Act to the trusts in question.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 83 runs as follow :  "Where a trust is incapable of being executed, or where the trust is completely executed with out exhausting the trust property, the trustee, in the absence of a direction to the contrary, must hold the trust property, or so much thereof a is unexhausted, for the benefit of the author of he trust or his legal representative."
RatioOfTheDecision	7.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this case, the trusts cannot be said to have been executed without exhausting the trust property.
RatioOfTheDecision	What remains to be considered is, whether the trusts are incapable of being executed.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to agree that the trusts are incapable of execution.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be that provision has not been made in the deeds of trust as to what should happen in a situation that may arise when both <ORG> and <ORG> are not in existence.
Precedent	However, during the years of account relevant to the assessment years in question, both <ORG> and <ORG> had been very m uch in existence and there was thus no possibility of a resulting trust in favour of the assessee in T.C.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	114 to 119 of 1979 and his wife in the relevant years.
Precedent	Considering the objects of the trusts and also the fact that the sons of the assessee in T.C.
Precedent	Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	114 to 119 of 1979, viz., <NAME> and <NAME>, had been in existence during the period in question and had also married, as we were informed at the bar, there is no scope for applying section 83 of the Indian Trusts Act at all on the facts and the circumstances of the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	We now refer to the decision in <ORG> v. <ORG> , relied on by the <ORG>.
Fact	By a trust deed executed by the assessee-company, a provision was made for the payment of a pension to its then managing director for the term of his life, should he live up to the age of 55 and then retire.
Fact	Under clause 2 of the deed of trust, the trustees held a sum of Pounds 8,208-19-0, which was paid to them and they held the rupee equivalent of Pounds 326-14-0 which was the annual pa yment, which the assessee-company undertook to make upon a trust and spend the same and the income, if any, in taking out a deferred annuity policy with an insurance society in the name of the trustees on the life of the managing director.
Fact	The policy was to cover the annuity of Pounds 720 per annum payable to the managing director for life from the date when he would attain he age of 55 years.
Fact	Under clause 3 of the trust deed, it was contemplated that, should the managing director and his wife be alive on the date when the managing director retired, annuity would be payable to hem for their joint lives and thereafter to the survivor of the two.
Fact	A further provision was also made that if the managing director should die before reaching the age of 55, but his wife should be alive, she would get an increased annuity.
Fact	Nothing was made available to either the managing director or his wife, if both died before the date on which the managing director would reach the age of 55.
Fact	Likewise, here was also no provision mad e in the deed that if the wife of the managing director should die before he reached the age of 55, in which event, no annuity would be payable.
Fact	The assessee-company claimed that the payments thus made constituted expenditure within the meaning of section 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.
Precedent	It was held that if the managing director and his wife, both died before September 20, 1955, when the managing director was due to attain the age of 55, the trust would become incapable of being executed and the trust funds remained unexhausted and as there was no direction in the trust deed that in such a situation, monies paid to the trustees would follow any course other than that indicated in section 83 of the Indian Trusts Act, the trustees would hold the monies for the benefit of the assessee and, therefore, it could not be said that by creating a trust in such terms and putting the trustees in possession of the funds in accordance with its provisions, the assessee had wholly parted with its interest in the  amounts concerned.
Precedent	Thus, the controversy in that case, though it incidentally involved the provisions of the deed of trust, really centred round claim for expenditure, as having been incurred within the meaning of section 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income-tax, Act 1922, and was not in any manner exclusively concerned with the question of the validity of the trust as such.
Precedent	While examining the claim of the company under section 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, as an expenditure, the court took into account the clauses in he trust deed and found that the amount spent would not really be an expenditure, having regard to the provisions in the trust deed.
RatioOfTheDecision	That decision cannot, therefore, be pressed into service by the <ORG> to invalidate he truss in this case.
RulingByPresentCourt	We are, therefore, of the view that the <ORG> was wrong in applying section 83 of the Indian Trusts Act to hold that there was a resulting trust in favour of the <NAME> and wife and that the share income from the trust funds has to be assesse d in the hands of the assessees.
RulingByPresentCourt	We, therefore, answer the question referred to us in the negative and in favour of the assessees.
RulingByPresentCourt	There will be, however, no order as to costs in these references.
