Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: THE TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF BOMBAY DATE OF JUDGMENT: 27/02/1962 BENCH: <NAME>, M. BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, J.C. CITATION: 1963 AIR 468 1962 SCR Supl.
Fact	(3) 461 CITATOR INFO : R 1988 SC 832 (8) D 1988 SC1313 (11) D 1990 SC2053 (4) ACT: Ejectment--Suit by Government or local <ORG> against assignees of leased land and building--Applicability of Rent Act--Jurisdiction of City Civil Court--joint tenancy--Notice on one tenant, if sufficient--Suit if bad for non-joinder of legal representative of the deceased joint tenant--Assignee of tenancy if bound by the terms of the original lease--Where enviction of sub-tenant not Possible under statute, whether a ground to defeat the rights of the Local Authorities--Bombay Rents.
Fact	Hotel and Lodging Houses Rates (Control) Act, 1947 (Bom.
Fact	57 of 1947), ss.
Fact	4, 5(8), 15.
Fact	HEADNOTE: In 1924, <ORG> granted a lease of land for ten years to a partnership firm, with the covenant that the lessee would,  at their own expense construct upon the said land, certain buildings to the specification.
Fact	of the trustees.
Fact	It was provided inter alia that the lessee would be at liberty to remove the buildings, erected by them, within three months after the expiration of the term.
Fact	It is not clear what happened actually after the expiration of the term of ten years.
Fact	In 1942, the Trustees granted to M/s.
Fact	D and 0 their respective heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, a mnthly tenancy of the and together with the buildings standing thereon.
Fact	It was agreed with them that on the 462 determination of the tenancy, they would have to remove such buildings as were standing upon the demised land.
Fact	In 1947 <ORG> and 0 assigned then rights in the lease to one R and the appellant K which was accepted by the trustees.
Fact	After due notice in 1956, the Trustees filed a suit for ejectment against <ORG>, in <ORG>.
Fact	R had died before the filing of the suit and the plaint was amended by striking out the name of <ORG> he appellant as defendant took a number of pleas; (a) notice was invalid as 'it had been served only upon one of the lessees, (b) suit was bad for non-joinder of the heirs and the legal representatives of R, (c) jurisdiction of <ORG> was challenged as the suit was governed by Rent Act , (d) and lastly, that the contract to deliver vacant possession was impossible of performance and the said impossibility rendered the' claim of the plaintiffs incompetent.
Fact	Held, that once it is held that the tenancy was joint a notice to one of the joint tenants was sufficient, and the suit for the same reason was good.
RulingByLowerCourt	Held, further, that the suit as laid for vacant possession of the site and in the <ORG> was competent.
RulingByLowerCourt	Held, that in view of the definition "premises" in s.5.
RulingByLowerCourt	(8) and the events leading to the amendment of s. 4 , the amend- ment was enacted to cut down by a definition the operation the words "any premises belonging to the Government or a local authority" by excluding buildings which were occ upied by sub-tenants even though the building belonged to the <ORG> or continued to belong to it and any action of the <ORG> or local authority in respect of the land falls to be governed by usb-s. (1) and not sub-s (4.)
RulingByLowerCourt	(a) of the Rent-control Act.
RulingByLowerCourt	Held, therefore, if the <ORG> or a local authority wants to evict a person from the land, the provisions of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging Houses Rates (Control) Act, 1947, (lo not come in the way.
Fact	For the same reason, the suit for ejectment does not have to be filed in the court of small causes, as requirtd by a Rent Control Act but in <ORG>.
Fact	If the 'original lessees took on lease not only the land but also the building, it is not open to their assignees to claim that the ownership of the <ORG> extended only to the land and not to the buildings.
Fact	If the appellant cannot evict his tenant so as to be able to remove the building, in exercise of the right conferred on him, that is an unfortunate circumstance, which does not ser ve to entitle him to defeat the rights of <ORG>.
Fact	463 Quere :-The Port Trust Authorities, whether can evict the sub-tenants ?
Fact	<ORG> <CITATION_732701> , (1953) S.C.R.
Fact	185 and <NAME> v. <ORG>, A.I.R.
Fact	1956 Bom.
Fact	364, referred to.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.
Fact	302 of 1961.
Fact	Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 24, 1959, of <ORG> in F.A.
Fact	No.
Fact	731 of 1959.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME>, for the appellant.
Fact	<NAME>, Attorney General of India, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for the respondents.
Fact	1962.
Fact	February, 27.
Fact	The Judgment of the Court was.
Fact	delivered by <NAME>, J.-This appeal arises out of a suit tried in <ORG> at Bombay:.
Fact	filed by the respondents, <ORG>, for the ejectment of the appellant, <NAME>, and <NAME> who had 'died even before the suit was filed, from a plot si tuated at Haji Bunder Mazgaon, Sewri Reclamation Estate, Bombay.
Fact	and for possession of the land.
Fact	There was a claim for Rs.
Fact	10,871-14-0 being the arrears of water charges and property taxes, with which we are not concerned.
Fact	The suit was decreed by <ORG> and the appellant was ordered to, vacate the suit premises add to deliver vacant possession thereof.
Fact	An appeal was filed against the decree in <ORG> at Bombay, but it was dismissed summarily on September 24, 1959.
Fact	<ORG> also refused an application for a certificate, but the appellant applied for special leave, and having obtained it, filed the present appeal.
Fact	In 1924, <ORG> granted a lease of the said land to five persons, who were trading in partnership under the name and style of <ORG>.
Fact	This lease was for a term of 10 Commencing from December 14, 1923.
Fact	For the first six months, the conventional rent of pepper corn, if demanded, was payable, and thereafte r for the remainder of the term, a monthly rent of Re.
Fact	633-5-4 was payable on the first day of every month.
Fact	The lessees were also to pay all rates, taxes, assessments, etc.
Fact	One of the covenants of the lease was that the lessees would, at their own expense and during the first six months period, construct upon the said piece of land buildings for us as bullock stables and offices according to the specification given to them by the said Trustees and to be approved by them.
Fact	It was provided, inter alia, that upon the expiration of the term, if the lessees had observed and performed all the covenants, they would be at liberty, at their own expense, to remove the buildings erected by them upon the demises on condition that the removal would be completed within three months after the expiration of the term.
Fact	During this period of three months, the lessees were to pay the monthly rent and also to pay all rates and taxes etc.
Fact	and if they failed to remove the buildings within the period of three Calendar months from the  expiration of the term and within like period to fill up all excavations and to level up and restore the land, the right to remove the buildings would stand determined, and the buildings would belong to the Trustees, who would be entitled to remove them and to clear, level and restore the land and recover the costs from the lessees.
Fact	It is not clear from the record as to what happened actually after the expiry of the term.
Fact	But on August 11, 1942, the Trustees of <ORG> granted to <NAME> and <NAME>, carrying on business under the name and style of Messrs. <NAME> and Company and their respective heirs, executors administrators and assigns, a monthly tenancy of the land together with the buildings standing thereon and all the rights, easements and appurtenances belonging to the premises on payment of monthly rent of Rs.
Fact	300/ , clear of all deductions on the first day of each Calender month and payment of all rates, taxes etc.
Fact	The lessees covenanted not to add to, or  alter the said buildings and conveniences etc., without previous consent, in writing, of the Trustees and to maintain the property in good repair at their own cost.
Fact	They further agreed :  "to peacefully leave and, yield up the demised premises together with all buildings thereon as prepared and kept at the expiration or sooner determination of the tenancy hereby created or in the event of the Tenants becoming entitled to remove the buildings standing on the demised land at the expiration or sooner determination of the tenancy hereby created pursuant to the proviso in that behalf hereafter contained to peaceably leave and yield up the demised land cleared and leveled to the satisfaction in all respects of the Trustees."
Fact	The provisos, inter alia, include the following covenants binding the lessees :  "(2) Either party to these presents may terminate the tenancy hereby created by giving to the other of them one, calendar month's notice in writing to expire on the 1st day of any calendar month.
Fact	(4) The Tenants  may during the period of notice for determination of tenancy hereby in accordance with proviso No.
Fact	2 herein before contained remove such buildings as have been standing upon the demised land provided that the Tenants shall have paid all rent hereby reserved up to the determination of this tenancy and shall have performed and observed all the covenants on the part of the Tenants and the conditions herein contained or referred to."
Fact	On February 28, 1947, <NAME> and <NAME> assigned their rights in the lease to <NAME> and <NAME> who, according to the deed of assignment (Ex.D) paid Rs.
Fact	22,250/- to the assignors, and this assignment appears to have been accepted by the lessors.
Fact	On January 25, 1956, the Trustees of the port of Bombay sent a notice to <NAME> and <NAME> requiring them to vacate the premises and deliver.
Fact	vacant and peaceful possession of the land on February 29, 1956.
Fact	This notice was not complied with, and the suit was filed for their ejectment, as s tated already.
Fact	In the plaint, the first relief claimed was that "the defendant be ordered and decreed to forthwith deliver vacant and peaceful possession of the demised premises situate at Mazagaon Sewri Reclamation Estate and more particularly described in Ex.
Fact	A hereto."
Fact	Exhibit A mentioned the following:  "All that piece or parcel of land situate at Haji Bunder, Mazagaon Sewri Reclamation Estate, Bombay, admeasuring 5066 619 square yards or thereabouts bearing <ORG>.'
Fact	The suit, as stated was filed against both <NAME> and <NAME>, but later, the plaint was amended by striking out the name of <NAME>, who had died much earlier.
Fact	The appellant, as defendant, raised a number of pleas.
Argument	His main contention was that the notice dated January 25, 1956 was invalid, inasmuch as it had been served only upon one of the lessees (<NAME>) and not upon the heirs and legal representatives of <NAME>.
Argument	He also contended that the suit was bad for non-joinder  of the heirs and legal representatives of <NAME>, who were necessary parties.
Argument	He raised a plea #of jurisdiction alleging that the suit had to be filed in <ORG>, Bombay, inasmuch as it was governed by the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging Houses Rates (Control) Act, 1947.
Argument	He further claimed the protection of a.
Argument	4, sub-a.
Argument	4 (a) of this Act which, he said, applied to him and not subs.
Fact	(1) of the same section.
Fact	He contended that, in view of the prohibition contained in the Act the could not evict his sub-tenants and that the con- tract that he must deliver vacant possession was impossible of performance, and the said impossibility rendered the claim of the plaintiffs incompetent.
Fact	All those pleas were found against the appellant.
Fact	It was held that the tenancy was a joint tenancy that a notice to one of the joint tenants was sufficient, and that the suit,also was not bad for non-joinder of the legal representatives of <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	The trial Judger held that the present agreement was enforceabl e, inasmuch as this case was governed by sub-s. the(1) and not sub- s. 4 (a) of s. 4 of the Act.
RulingByLowerCourt	For same reason, the trial Judge also held that the suit was properly laid in <ORG> at Bombay, The same contentions were raised before us, and we shall deal with them in the same order.
RatioOfTheDecision	The argument about notice need not detain us long.
Fact	By the deed of assignment dated February 28, 1947, the tenants took the premises as joint tenants.
Fact	The exact words of-the assignment were that........ the Assignors do and each of them both hereby assign and assure with the Assignees as Joint Tenants.........
Fact	The deed of assignment was approved and accepted by the Trustees of <ORG>, and <NAME> and the appellant must be regarded as joint tenants.
Fact	The trial Judge therefore, rightly held them to be so.
Fact	Once it is held that the tenancy was joint, a notice to one of the joint tenants was sufficient, and the suit for the same reason was also good.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME>, in arguing the 'case of the appellant,  did not seek to urge the opposite.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, the notice and the frame of the suit were, therefore, proper, and this argument has no merit.
RatioOfTheDecision	The real controversy in this case centers round the applicability of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging Houses Rates (Control) Act, 1947 (shortly called the Rent Control Act in the judgment) to the present suit., and from that also arises the question of the jurisdiction of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The latter argument about the juris- diction of the <ORG> can only arise, if the Rent Control Act applies to the present facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	We shall, therefore, consider these two points together.
Statute	It must not be overlooked that the suit was for eviction from the land only Under the Rent Control Act, the word "premises " is defined by s.5 (8) inter alia, as follows:  "Premises" means-  (&) any land-not being used for agricultural purposes.
Statute	The Act , prior to its amendment in 1953 by the Bombay Act IV of 1953, provided by s.4(1) as follows:  " This Act shall not apply to any p remises belonging to the <ORG> or a local authority or apply as against the <ORG> to any tenancy or other like relationship created by a grant from the <ORG> in respect of premises taken on lease or requisitioned by the <ORG>; but it shall ,apply in respect of premises let to the <ORG> or a local authority........
Fact	This sub-section was considered by <ORG> in a case, which was brought up in appeal to this Court by special leave.
Fact	The judgment of this Court is reported in <CITATION_732701> (1).
Fact	In that case, building sites were auctioned in 1908 by <ORG>, Bombay.
Fact	One of the conditions of the sale was that the bidder should construct a building, on the site, of a certain value and according to a plan approved by <ORG>.
Fact	One <NAME> was the highest bidder, and he constructed a building.
Fact	as agreed.
Fact	He was then granted a lease of the land together with the building for 999 years.
Fact	Subsequently in 1925, <ORG> su cceeded <ORG>, and <ORG> acquired the lessee's interest.
Fact	A suit was filed by <ORG> against its own tenants in <ORG>.
Fact	The plea was that the suit ought to have been filed in <ORG>, as required by the Rent Control Act.
Fact	The plaintiff relied upon sub-s. (1) of s. 4 to show that the Act did not apply to such a suit.
Fact	This contention of the plaintiff was accepted by the Trial Judge, who decreed the claim.
Fact	<ORG>, however, on appeal, held that sub-s.(1) of s. 4 did not apply, and that as between <ORG> and its sub-tenants, the suit was governed by the Rent Control Act and ought, to go before <ORG>.
Argument	<ORG>, therefore ordered that the plaint be returned for presentation to the proper <ORG>.
Argument	This <ORG>, on appeal by special leave, reversed the decision of the 'High <ORG>, and restored that of the Trial Judge.
Argument	This <ORG> pointed out that sub- s. (1) of s. 4 had three parts viz.
Argument	"(1) this Act shall not apply to premises belonging to the <ORG> or a local authority;  (1) [1953] S. C. R. 185, (2) this Act shall not apply as against the <ORG> to any tenancy or other like relationship created by grant from the <ORG> in respect of premises taken or lease or requisitioned by the <ORG>; and (3) this Act shall apply in respect of pre- mises let out to the <ORG> or a local authority."
RatioOfTheDecision	This court further held that the first part of the sub- section mentioned as part No.
RatioOfTheDecision	(1) above had no reference to any tenancy or other like relationship as in the latter part, and was general in character.
RatioOfTheDecision	In framing it in that way, the intention was obviously different, and it was to exempt premises of a particular type from the operation of the Act altogether, and the exemption attached to the premises.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reasons were given by this Court why it thought that this exemption was general and the immunity absolute.
RatioOfTheDecision	Into these reasons we are not now requir ed to go.
RulingByLowerCourt	As between the Bombay Municipality and the lessee, it was held that the land and the buildings belonged to the former as owners and not to the lessee.
RulingByLowerCourt	This <ORG>, therefore, observed at p. 196:  "The truth is that the lessor after the building was erected became the owner of it and all the time thereafter the demised pre- mises which include the building have belonged to him subject to the right of enjoyment of the lessee in terms of the lease."
RulingByLowerCourt	The Act was thus held not to apply to such suits, and the order of the High <ORG> was reversed.
RulingByLowerCourt	At first, an Ordinance and later, an Act were passed to nullify the effect of this ruling by the addition of sub- s.4(a).
RulingByLowerCourt	That sub-section now reads as follows ;.
Statute	"(4)(a).
Statute	The expression "premises belonging to the Government or a local au- thority" in sub-section (1) shall, notwith- standing anything contained in the said sub- section or in any judgment.
Statute	decree or order of a <ORG>, not include a building erected on any land held by any person from the Governmen t or a local authority under an agreement, lease or other grant, although having regard to the provisions of such agreement, lease or grant the building so erected may belong or continue to belong to the <ORG> or the local authority, a,-, the case may be; and  (b) notwithstanding anything contained in section 15 , such person shall be en led to ,tit create a tenancy in respect of such building or a part thereof."
RatioOfTheDecision	The amendment achieved two different things.
Precedent	It enabled the lessee of the particular kind of building described in el.
Precedent	(a) to create sub-tenancies in spite of the ban against sub- tenancies contained in s.15).
Precedent	It also excluded from the operation of sub-s.(1) the buildings specified in cl.
Precedent	(a) of the subsection.
Precedent	The amendment said nothing about the relationship of the <ORG> or the local.
Precedent	authority, on the one hand, and the lessee, on the other, in respect of the land.
Precedent	The word "premises" in subs.
Precedent	(2) could mean the land or the buildings or both.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sub-section (4)(a) dealt only with the buildi ngs, and did not deal with the land, because it used the word "buildings" and not the more general word "premises".
RatioOfTheDecision	The import of sub-s.(4)(a) of s.4 was thus limited to buildings, and did not extend to land.
RatioOfTheDecision	The sub-section, however, was drafted somewhat inartistically, and the obscurity of the language presents some difficulty.
Precedent	The Trial Judge following a decision of <ORG> reported in <CITATION_783555> (1).
Precedent	In that case, one Khudabaksh Irani had A.I.R, 1956.
Precedent	Bow.
Precedent	364.
Precedent	472  taken lease of certain plots some 30 years back., and constructed some structures upon the open plot, and rented them out as tenements.
Fact	In 1947, Irani sold them to one <ORG>.
Fact	In 1951, <ORG> filed a suit to eject <ORG> from the plots, and by a consent decree, <ORG> agreed to deliver up vacant and peaceful possession of the plots clear of all structures.
Fact	<ORG> failed to remove the structures, and <ORG> sought to execute the decree.
Fact	The tenants thereupon filed a suit under  0.
Fact	21, 103 of the Civil Procedure Code against Municipal Corporation, but the suit was dismissed.
Fact	In the appeal which was filed in <ORG>, it was conceded that <ORG> was the owners of the plots in question, but protection was claimed on the basis of sub- s.(4)(a) of s.4 of the Rent Control Act.
Precedent	<NAME>, C. J. in dealing with the history of the amending Act, pointed out that the legislature was seeking to protect by that sub- section tenants who occupied buildings put upon land belonging to a local authority, if the buildings occupied by them were constructed under an agreement under which the lessee was under an obligation to construct buildings.
Precedent	He pointed out that the protection of sub-s.(4) (a) was to buildings and not to land, and that the phrase "under an agreement, lease or other grant" modified not only "held by any person from Government or local authority" but also "erected on any land'.
Precedent	He, therefore, held that the words "erected on any land held by any person from a local  authority" were descriptive of the building and did not emphasise the point of time when the building was erected.
Precedent	By that phrase, what was emphasised was ",that the nature of the building must be such as to satisfy the test that it was erected on land hold by a person from a local authority and the test must be applied at the time when the protection is sought."
Precedent	473  In this case, it is contended, as it was contended in <ORG>, that so long as a building was erected under an agreement with <ORG> or a local authority, the benefit of sub-a.
Precedent	(4)(a) of s. 4 would be available, no matter how many hands the property might have changed.
Precedent	this argument was considered by the learned Chief Justice, and was rejected.
Precedent	In our opinion, though the section is far from clear, the meaning given by the learned Chief Justice is the only possible meaning, regard being had to the circumstances in which this sub-section came to be enacted.
Precedent	Those circumstances were : In a case in which the holder of the land f rom a local authority was seeking to evict his sub- tenants, it was held by <ORG> that the matter was governed by the Rent Control Act.
Precedent	This Court held that sub-s.(1) applied and the suit was not governed by the Rent Control Act.
Precedent	The amendment was enacted to cut down by a definition the operation of the words "any premises belonging to the <ORG> or a local authority", by excluding only buildings which were occupied by sub-tenants even though the buildings belonged to the <ORG> or continued to belong to it.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clause (b) of sub-s.(4) excluded also s. 15 , which prohibited subjecting by a tenant.
RatioOfTheDecision	That, however, was limited to the case of buildings only, and did not apply to the case of land.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this situation, any action by the <ORG> or the local authority in respect of land falls to be governed by sub-s.(1) and not sub-s.(4)  (a), and sub-s.(1) puts the case in relation to land, entirely out of the Rent Control Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The net result, there fore, is that if <ORG> or a local author ity wants to evict a person from the land, the provisions of the Rent Control Act do not come in the way.
RatioOfTheDecision	For the same reason, the suit for ejectment does not have to be filed in the Court, of Small Causes, as required by the Rent Control Act but in <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	as has been done in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	474  There is one more reason in this case for reaching the same conclusion, because at the time of the lease in 1942, the lessees, from whom the appellant claims assignment, were given a lease not only of the land but of the buildings.
RatioOfTheDecision	'The whole tenor of the agreement shows that the title of the lessees wag precarious.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was a monthly tenancy liable to be terminated with a notice under the Transfer of Property Act , and there was only a grace that the lessees, when evicted, might remove buildings within one month of their eviction.
RatioOfTheDecision	This precarious interest was obtained by the assignee by an assignment, and the same thing applies to them.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the original lessees took on lease not only the land but also the bu ildings, it is not open to their assignees to claim that the ownership of the <ORG> extended only to the land and not to the buildings By the admissions in the deed of lease and the.
RatioOfTheDecision	various clauses, it is quite clear that these buildings cannot now be described as buildings constructed under an agreement with the <ORG>, but rather as buildings belonging to <ORG> which were leased out with the land but in respect of which by a concession, the lessees were entitled to remove the buildings within one month after eviction, In our opinion, the suit as laid for vacant possession of the site and in <ORG> was competent.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was contended that the contract was incapable of being performed, because at least between the present appellant and his sub-tenants the provisions of the Rent Control Act would apply, and he would not be able to evict them in his turn.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was, therefore, argued that this impossible on the part of the appellant to fulfill his, obligations to deliver vacant possession  rendered that portion of the lease deed unenforceable and void.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is to be noticed that the appellant does not claim that by reason of the impossibility the whole of the lease deed becomes void, because if he did so, the suit of the <ORG> authorities would be perfectly justified without any more He only seeks to show that portion of the deed dealing with delivery of vacant possession has become impossible of performance.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a situation had also arisen in the case of <ORG> in <CITATION_783555> (1), and the assignee of the lessee was unable 'to deliver vacant possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether or not the <ORG> authorities would be able hereafter to evict the sub-tenants of the appellant is a matter, on which we need not express any opinion.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the appellant cannot evict his subtenants so as to be able to remove the buildings, in exercise of the right conferred on him, that is an unfortunate circumstance , which does nor, serve to entitle him to defeat the rights of the <ORG> authorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	The  are only claiming vacant possession of the sited, and under the agreement, if the appellant does not remove the buildings within one month, then they would be entitled to take possession of the land with the buildings, whatever might be the rights of the sub-tenants, and as to which, as we have pointed out already, we say nothing.
RulingByPresentCourt	In our opinion, the appeal must fail, and is dismissed ; but in the circumstances of the case, we do not make any order about costs.
RulingByPresentCourt	Appeal dismissed.
Precedent	(1) A.I R 1996 Bom.
Precedent	364
