Fact	JUDGMENT  1.
Fact	The assessees are the sons of <NAME>, the proprietor of the Zemindari of Pithapur which was permanently settled under the Madras Permanent Settlement Regulation (Madras Regulation XXV of 1802).
Fact	They are the joint proprietors of an estate settled upon them by their <NAME>, The estate which formed part of the Zamindari of Pithapur includes certain forests from which the assessees derive income by the sale of wood, bark, leaves, other usufruct of trees, minor forest produce and license fees.
Fact	They supplement this income by the sale of trees in non-forest areas of the estate held by them.
Fact	It is admitted that the trees in the forest and non-forest areas have grown wild and that agricul.
Fact	2.
Fact	Rural operations are not carried on in any of the areas.- For the year of account, 1941-42, the income from these sourcesamounted to Rs.
Fact	7,612 and the assessees were taxed on this sum for the year 1942-43.
Fact	They maintained that they were exempt from taxation for two reasons.
Fact	In the first place th ey said that the income was derived from the produce of a permanently settled estate which was free from all taxation, other than that imposed by way of peishkush, by reason of the provisions of the Madras Regulation.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the second place they contended that the income was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 2(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 and as such is exempt from income-tax by reason of Section 4(3) (viii).
RulingByLowerCourt	The Income-tax Officer rejected both these pleas.
RulingByLowerCourt	His decision was upheld by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and by <ORG>.
Fact	At the request of the assessees, the <ORG> has, under Section 66(1) of the Income-tax Act, referred for the opinion of this <ORG> two questions.
Fact	The tribunal has worded them as follows:  (1) Whether the imposition of income-tax in respect of income derived from a permanently settled estate would be a breach of Regulation XXV of 1802 relating to Permanent Settlement.
Fact	(2) Whether the income of Rs.
Fact	7,612 derived from the sale of  wood etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	(as detailed herein above) is exempt under Section 4(3)(viii) read with Section 2(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.
RatioOfTheDecision	3.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words " as detailed herein above " mean of course as detailed in the order of reference.
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
Precedent	In Chief Commissioner of Income-tax v. <NAME> of Singampatti (1922) I.L.R.
Precedent	45 Mad.
Precedent	518 (F.B.)
Precedent	<ORG> of three Judges of this Court held that income from a permanently settled estate was exempt from all taxation beyond the peishkush payable to <ORG>.
Precedent	The precise question in that case was whether the income from forests and fisheries was agricultural income and therefore not chargeable to income-tax.
Precedent	The Court did not decide whether such income came within the definition of agricultural income, although it would appear that the learned Judges were inclined to the view that it was.
Precedent	They based their decision on the broad ground that the Madras Regulation and the sanad issued to the Zamindar precluded further taxation by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The sanad followed the provisions  of the Regulation.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case, the sanad has not been produced, but it may be taken that it was also in accordance with the Regulation.
RatioOfTheDecision	5.
Precedent	If the decision in <CITATION_1949050> (1922) I.L.R.
Precedent	45 Mad.
Precedent	518 (F.B.)
Precedent	stood alone we should be bound to answer the first question referred in favour of the assessee; but it does not stand alone.
Precedent	There is a judgment of <ORG> of later date which has direct bearing.
Precedent	It was delivered in Prabhatchandra Barua v. King-Emperor (1930) 59 M.L.J.
Precedent	814 : L.R.
Precedent	57 I.A.
Precedent	228.
Precedent	I.L.R.
Precedent	58 Cal.
Fact	430 (P.C.)
Fact	where the same question arose with reference to the Bengal Permanent Settlement Regulation (Bengal Regulation I of 1793).
Fact	Their Lordships pointed out that while that Regulation contains assurances against any claim to an increase of the jama, based on an increase of the zamindari income, no promise is given in it that a zamindar shall in respect of the income which he derives from his zamindari be exempt from liability to any future general scheme of property taxation,  or that the income of the zamindari shall not be subjected with other incomes to any future general taxation of incomes.
Fact	6.
Fact	The Bengal Regulation is differently worded from the Madras Regulation, but they are both to the same effect.
Fact	Article 4 of the Bengal Regulation reads as follows:  The Governor-General in Council accordingly declares to the zamindars, independent talook-dars and other actual proprietors of land with or on behalf of whom a settlement has been concluded under the Regulations abovementioned, that at the expiration of the term of the settlement no alteration will be made in the assessment which they have respectively engaged to pay, but that they and their heirs and lawful successors, will be allowed to hold their estates at such assessment for ever.
Fact	7.
Fact	The Madras Regulation opens with this statement:  Whereas it is known to the zamindars, mirasdars, raiyats and cultivators of land in the territories subject to <ORG> that from the earliest until the present per iod of time the public assessment of the land-revenue has never been fixed; but that, according to the practice of Asiatic Governments, the assessment of the land-revenue has fluctuated without any fixed principles for the determination of the amount and without any security to the zamindars or other persons for the continuance of a moderate land-tax; that, on the contrary, frequent inquiries have been instituted by the ruling power, whether Hindu pr Muhammadan, for the purpose of augmenting the assessment of the land revenue; that it has been customary to regulate such augmentations by the inquiries and opinions of the local officers appointed by the ruling power for the time being; and that in the attainment of an increased revenue on such foundations, it has been usual for the Government to deprive the zamindars and to appoint persons on its own behalf to the management of the zamindaris, thereby reserving to the ruling power the implied right and the actual exercise of the proprietary possession of all la nds whatever; and whereas it is obvious to the said zamindars, mirasdars, raiyats and cultivators of land that such a mode of administration must be injurious to the permanent prosperity of the country by obstructing the progress of agriculture, population and wealth and destructive of the comfort of individual persons by diminishing the security of personal freedom and of private property; wherefore, <ORG>, impressed with a deep sense of the injuries arising to the <ORG> and to its subjects from the operation of such principles, has resolved to remove from its administration so fruitful a source of uncertainty and disquietude, to grant to zamindars and other landholders, their heirs and successors, a permanent property in their land in all time to come and to fix for ever a moderate assessment of public revenue on such lands, the amount of which shall never be liable to be increased under any circumstances.
Precedent	8.
Precedent	In the clauses which follow effect is given to this declaration.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	In Prabhatch <NAME> v. King-Emperor (1930) 59 M.L.J.
Precedent	814 : L.R.
Fact	57 I.A.
Fact	228 : I.L.R.
Fact	58 Cal.
Fact	430 (P.C) <ORG> held that the zamindar of a permanently settled estate is assessable to Indian income tax in respect of the income, profits and gains derived from his zamindari, subject to the exemptions provided in Section 4(3) of the Act.
Fact	The assessment should be computed after making proper allowance under Section 12(2) in respect of the jama assessed and paid.
Fact	Their Lordships affirmed the decision of <ORG> that the following items of the income derived by the appellant from his zamindari were not agricultural income and therefore not exempt from income-tax by section  10.
Fact	4(3)(VIII):  (i) Jalkar or rents received from fisheries.
Fact	(ii) Ground-rent from land used for potteries.
Fact	(iii) Ground-rent from land used as brickfields.
Fact	(iv) Fees received from the tying up of boats against the assessee's land.
Fact	(v) Fees received from land used for storing purchases of crops (paliali).
Fact	(vi) Fees r eceived from cart-stands.
Fact	(vii) Punyaha nazar or nazar paid by tenants of agricultural holdings at the beginning of the zamindari year.
Fact	(viii) Nazar for petition presented to the zamindar, dealing with questions of succession, settlement and partition of agricultural holdings.
Fact	(ix) Ground-rent for permanent shops at hauls and bazars.
Fact	(x) Stall fees paid by temporary (daily) sellers at hauts and bazars.
Fact	11.
Fact	The learned Counsel for the assessees has not been able to advance any reason why this <ORG> should not apply the decision in <NAME> v. King-Emperor (1930) 59 M.L.J.
Fact	814 : L.R.
Fact	57 I.A.
Fact	228 : I.L.R.
Fact	58 Cal.
Fact	430 (P.C) to the Madras Regulation.
Fact	If the Bengal Regulation permits of the profits and gains of a zamindari, other than those derived from agriculture, being assessed to income-tax, the same considerations must apply to the Madras Regulation.
Fact	We hold that their Lordships' judgment impliedly overrules the judgment of this <ORG> in <CITATION_1949050> (1922) I.L.R.
Fact	45 Mad.
Fact	518 (F.B.)
Fact	and  accordingly we answer the first question by saying that the imposition of income-tax in respect of income other than agricultural income derived from a permanently settled estate would not be a breach of the Madras Regulation.
RatioOfTheDecision	12.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have now to decide whether the income derived from forests of spontaneous growth and from trees which have grown wild in non-forest areas represents agricultural income within the meaning of the definition given in Section 2(1) of the Income-tax Act.
Precedent	As we have indicated, the learned Judges who decided <CITATION_61189> (1922) I.L.R.
Precedent	45 Mad.
Precedent	518 (F.B.)
Precedent	were inclined to the view that income from forests and fisheries would be agricultural income, although they did not decide this question.
Precedent	It is very difficult to see how income from fisheries could be classified as agricultural income.
Precedent	In fact the decision of <ORG> in <NAME> v. King-Emperor (1930) 59 M.L.J.
Precedent	814 : L.R.
Fact	57 I.A.
Fact	228 : I.L.R.
Fact	58 Cal.
Fact	430 (P.C.)
RatioOfTheDecision	shows clearly that it cannot be so classified.
Precedent	T heir Lordships did not, however, have to consider whether income from forests or individual trees of spontaneous growth comes within the definition and therefore it is necessary to examine the question for ourselves in the light of the reported cases which have bearing on it.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	<CITATION_1625320> (1941) I.L.R.
Precedent	20 Pat.
Precedent	699 (S.B.)
Precedent	<ORG> held, that the income derived from wild jungle fruits was not income derived from land used for agriculture or from agriculture and therefore was not assessable to income-tax under the Bihar Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1938.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. Salig Rams A.I.R.
Precedent	1919 Lah.
Precedent	222 2 <ORG> held that a stretch of natural forest which did not lie within a village site was exempt from pre-emption under the Punjab Pre-emption Act, 1905, as it was not agricultural land or land used for purposes subservient to agriculture and this decision was upheld by <ORG> in <NAME> v. Salig Ram (1923) 46 M.L.J.
Precedent	536: L.R.
Precedent	51 I.A.
Precedent	11 I.L.R.
Precedent	5 Lah.
Precedent	50 ( P.C.)
Precedent	Of course, what is agriculture within the meaning of the Indian Income-tax Act may not be agriculture within the meaning of another Act, as my learned brother pointed out when delivering the judgment of this Court in <NAME> v. Subramaniam I.L.R.
Precedent	(1945) Mad.
Precedent	61 : (1944) l M.L.J.
Precedent	361 but we think that the Lahore case does render material assistance in deciding the question now before us.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	Another judgment of <ORG> which has bearing is that delivered in <CITATION_10238> (1924)47 M.L.J.
Precedent	824: L.R.
Precedent	51 I.A.
Precedent	381 : I.L.R.
Precedent	46 All.
Precedent	831 (P.C.).
Precedent	The question there was whether a mango grove was land used for agricultural purposes within the meaning of Section 79 of the Agra Tenancy Act, 1901 and it was held that it was not.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	<ORG> defines " agriculture " as " the science and art of cultivating the soil, including the allied pursuits of gathering in the crops and rearing live-stock, tillage, husbandry, farming (in the widest sense)."
RatioOfTheDecision	The word " agriculture " implies something  which is achieved with the aid of human agency.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our judgment, income derived from trees which have grown wild cannot legitimately be described as agricultural income.
Precedent	In inclining to the opinion that income from forests was agricultural income, the learned Judges who decided <CITATION_1949050> (1922) I.L.R.
Precedent	45 Mad.
Precedent	518 (F.B.)
Precedent	were obviously influenced by the opinion which they had formed on the main question, namely, that no other tax beyond that involved in the payment of peishkush could be levied on income derived from a permanently settled estate.
Precedent	There is ample authority for holding that income derived from trees which have grown wild is not agricultural income, but without the aid of authority, we should have no hesitation in saying that to describe it as such would involve a distortion of the meaning of the word " agriculture".
Precedent	17.
Precedent	We answer the second question referred by saying that the Rs.
Precedent	7,612 does not represent agricultural income and is taxable.
Precedent	18.
Argument	As both the questions have been answered a gainst the assessees, they must pay the costs of the reference which we fix at Rs.
Argument	250.
