Fact	PETITIONER: <ORG>, <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, <NAME> DATE OF JUDGMENT: 08/12/1965 BENCH: <NAME>, S.M.
Fact	BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>, K. <NAME>, J.C. CITATION: 1966 AIR 1053 1966 SCR (2) 944 CITATOR INFO : F 1967 SC 819 (5) R 1969 SC 840 (11) R 1969 SC 946 (5) E 1969 SC1160 (5) D 1975 SC 97 (20) R 1976 SC 772 (6) R 1986 SC1483 (4) ACT: Indian Income-tax Act , 1922, s. 10(2)(xv) -Loan obtained by company-Stamp duty and other expenditure incurred in obtaining the loan-Whether capital or revenue expenditure- Whether laid out for purpose of business.
Fact	HEADNOTE: During the accounting period relevant for the assessment year 1950-51 the appellant company obtained a loan of 40 lakhs of rupees from <ORG>.
Fact	The loan was secured by a charge on the fixed assets of the company.
Fact	A sum of Rs.
Fact	84,633 was shown in the Balance Sheet for the said accounting year as mortgage loan expenses; the sum was not charged as expenditure in the profit and loss account.
Fact	In  the accounts for the accounting year ending March 31, 1953, this sum was written off by appropriation against profits of that year.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Income-tax Officer disallowed the deduction; he held that the expenditure was incurred in obtaining capital and should be distinguished from interest on borrowed capital which alone was admissible as a deduction under s. 10(2)(iii) .
RulingByLowerCourt	In his view the expenditure was of a capital nature and therefore not admissible under s. 10(2)(xv) either.
Fact	After intermediate proceedings <ORG> in reference gave a finding upholding the view of the Income-tax Officer.
Fact	The appellant by special leave, came to this Court.
Fact	It was contended on behalf of the appellant that : (1) the expenditure in question was not incurred to acquire any asset or advantage of an enduring nature; (2) it was applied wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business; and (3) was admissible as a deduction under S. 10 (2) (xv).
Fact	HELD : In the circumstances of the case the expenditure in question was revenue e xpenditure within s. 10(2)(xv) .
Fact	(i)When there is no express prohibition, an outgoing, by means of which an assessee procures the use of a thing by which it makes a profit, is deductible from the receipts of the business to ascertain taxable income.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the facts of the instant case, the money secured by the loan was the thing for the use of which this expenditure was made.
RatioOfTheDecision	In principle, apart from any statutory provisions, there is no distinction, as drawn by the Income-tax Officer, between interest in respect of a loan and an expenditure incurred for obtaining the loan.
RatioOfTheDecision	[950 G-H] (ii)A loan obtained cannot be treated as an asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business of the assessee.
RatioOfTheDecision	A loan is a liability and has to be repaid and it is erroneous to consider a liability as an asset or an advantage.
Precedent	[955 C] (iii)The nature of the expenditure incurred in raising a loan cannot be made to depend on the nature and purpose of the loan.
Precedent	A loan may be intended to be used for the purchase of raw materia l when it is negotiated but the company may after raising the lo-an change its mind and spend it on securing capital assets, [955 11-956 B] 945 (iv)The loan was voluntarily entered into in order to facilitate the running of the business of the company and it could not be said that it was not laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business.
Precedent	[958 B] Case law considered.
Precedent	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.
Precedent	1106 of 1964.
Precedent	Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the October 31, 1961 of <ORG> in Tax Case No.
Precedent	67 of 1958.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for the respondent.
Fact	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, J.
Fact	This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of <ORG> at Madras answering the following question of law in favour of the respondent :  "Whether on the facts and in the  circumstances of the case, the <ORG> was right in law in holding that the sum of rupees 84,633/- expended by the assessee in obtaining the loan or any part thereof is an allowable expenditure ?"
Fact	The facts and circumstances of the case as stated by the <ORG> in the statement of the case are as follows : The appellant, <ORG>, Madras, hereinafter referred to as the assessee, is a public limited company.
Fact	The question arises in respect of the assessment year 1950- 51, accounting period April 1, 1949 to March 31, 1950.
Fact	During the accounting year it obtained a loan of 40 lakhs of rupees from <ORG>.
Fact	This loan was secured by a charge on the fixed assets of the company.
Fact	Since Mr. <NAME>, the learned counsel for the respondent, has disputed some facts as stated by the Appellant <ORG>, it would be convenient to give these facts in the words of the Appellate <ORG>.
Fact	It is stated in the statement of the case that "the proceeds of this loan was utilised  to pay off a prior debt of 25 lakhs due to Messrs <ORG> and <ORG>.
Fact	It cannot be stated definitely how the balance of 15 lakhs was used but the directors, while reporting on the accounts for the year ended 31-3-1949 on 4-10-1949 stated that that was utilised towards working funds."
Fact	The expenditure of Rs.
Fact	84,633/- in connection with this loan was made up of thefollowing items :  Stamps 60,02300 Registration Fee 16,,06700 Charges for certified copy of the mortgage deed 2800 Indemnity deed by <ORG> 1500 <ORG>'s fee for drafting deed 7,50000 Legal fees 1,00000 Total Rs.
Fact	84,633 0 0 The assessee did not charge this expenditure in the profits and loss account for that year.
Fact	It was shown in the Balance Sheet as mortgage loan expenses.
Fact	It continued to be so shown till March 31, 1952.
Fact	In the accounts for March 31, 1953 this was written off by appropriation against the profits of that year.
Fact	The Income Tax Officer refused to allow the deduction of Rs.
Fact	84,633/-.
Fact	He obse rved "As per the information furnished by the auditors, Rs.
Fact	25 lakhs of the loan was to be paid to Messrs <NAME>, Limited, and <ORG> in, discharge of the amount borrowed from them and utilised on the capital assets of the company.
Fact	Though in the Company's books the amount of Rs.
Argument	84,633 was not charged to revenue but capitalised and carried forward in the Balance Sheet, for purposes of income tax, the Company's auditors claim the same as an admissible item of revenue expenditure."
Argument	He held that the expenditure was incurred in obtaining capital and should be distinguished from interest on borrowed capital which was alone admissible as a deduction under S. 10 (2) (iii).
Argument	According to him, s. 10 (2) (xi) specifically excludes from consideration any item of capital expenditure.
Argument	He further held that the case was not distinguishable from the decision in <ORG> v. <ORG>, Central Provinces(1).
Argument	The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with t he Income Tax Officer.
Precedent	<ORG> distinguished the case of Nagpur Electric Light and Power Co.  (1) 6 I.T.C.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	947  v. Commissioner of Income Tax(1) on the ground that in the Nagpur Electric Light(1) case money was expended for obtaining capital.
Precedent	It observed as follows "Here we find the position to be different.
Argument	A study of the balance-sheets of the company as at 31-3-1949 discloses the fact that the paid- up capital was sufficient to cover the entire capital outlay of the company and that the further borrowal of Rs.
Argument	25 lakhs was for aug- menting the working.
Argument	funds of the company.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears to us that even at that early stage the money was borrowed and used not for capital purposes but for augmenting the working funds of the company.
Fact	We, therefore, consider that the whole of the mortgage loan was used firstly to discharge the loan of Rs.
RulingByLowerCourt	25 lakhs and the balance for working funds and, as such, the whole of the amount was purely for the purposes of augmenting the working capital of the company  and that it could not be stated that it was used for capital purposes.
RulingByLowerCourt	In this view of the matter, we hold that the money expended in obtaining the loan is an allowable expenditure."
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG>, after noticing the findings of the Income Tax Officer and the <ORG> preferred the findings of fact made by the Income Tax Officer.
RulingByLowerCourt	It observed "At this stage, we may point out that the conclusion reached by the <ORG> that the money was borrowed only for working expenses and not for capital investment proceeded on an inference based upon the balance-sheet.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> did not investigate how the sum of Rs.
RulingByLowerCourt	25 lakhs earlier borrowed from <ORG> was actually utilised.
RulingByLowerCourt	Though in the order of the Income- tax Officer it is found stated that that amount was utilised on the capital assets of the company and that statement was based on the authority of the information furnished by the auditors of the assessee, the <ORG> either overlooked or ignored this circumstance.
Precedent	In the face of th e statement so recorded by the Income-tax Officer, the <ORG> does not appear to have been justified in relying upon inferences in ascertaining whether the earlier borrowal was on capital or revenue account."
Precedent	(1)6 I.T.C.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	948  <ORG> after reviewing various cases, observed :  "If we ask for what purpose the expenditure in the present case was incurred, the only answer must be that it was incurred for the purpose of bringing into existence an asset in the shape of borrowing these Rs.
Fact	40 lakhs.
Fact	The further question would then be whether this asset or advantage was not for the enduring benefit of the business and whether the expenditure incurred was one which was incurred once and for all.
Fact	The answer to both questions would again be in the affirmative.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that the borrowed money has to be repaid and it cannot be an enduring advantage in the sense that the money becomes part of the assets of the company for all time to come.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, it certainly is an advantage which the company derives from t he duration of the loan and undoubtedly it could not have been for any purpose other than an advantage to the business that the borrowing was made.
RatioOfTheDecision	That it is not enduring in the sense that the borrowing has to be repaid after a short or long period, as it were, cannot affect the conclusion that it was nevertheless an asset or an advantage that was secured.
RatioOfTheDecision	Viewed in the light of the tests adumbrated in the above decision <CITATION_923991> (1) it seems to us that the expenditure must be regarded as capital expenditure.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the facts of the case which we have set out earlier indicate, there can be no doubt that at least to the extent of Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	25 lakhs that amount was expended for purposes of a capital nature, clearly in order to bring into existence capital assets.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have also pointed out that though it was vaguely stated by the <ORG> that the other sum of Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	15 lakhs was utilised as working funds, there seems to be no material whatsoever before the <ORG> to justify its coming to that conclusion."
Argument	The le arned counsel for the assessee company, <CITATION_1441230> , urges that the expenditure is admissible as a deduction under s. 10(2) (xv) of the Act.
Precedent	He says that <ORG> erred in holding that the expenditure was made to acquire any asset or advantage of an enduring nature within the test laid down by Viscount <NAME> and approved by this Court in <CITATION_923991> (1).
Precedent	He (1) 27 I.T.R.
Precedent	34.
Argument	949  further says that what was secured by the expenditure was a loan and in India money expended in raising a loan, whether by means of a debenture or a mortgage and whether you call it a loan capital or not, is not an expenditure in the nature of capital expenditure.
Argument	He further submits that the expenditure was expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business of the company.
Argument	The learned counsel for the revenue, Mr. <NAME>, supports the reasoning of <ORG>.
Argument	He says that <ORG> was right in preferring the findings of the Income Tax Officer on the ground that there was no material for  the finding made by <ORG> and the finding was based on surmises and material evidence was ignored.
Argument	He says that <ORG> in a reference is entitled to ignore any findings of fact made by <ORG> if those findings are vitiated.
Argument	In the alternative, he says that the question referred is wide enough to include the question whether there was any material for the finding of <ORG>.
Argument	On the merits he contends that expenditure takes the colour from the thing on which the expenditure is made.
Argument	If the money is spent to obtain capital then the expenditure assumes the nature of capital expenditure, but if the money is spent to obtain raw-materials then the expenditure takes the colour of revenue expenditure.
Argument	He further says that the borrowed money is an enduring asset and any expenditure made to obtain this money falls within the test laid down by Viscount <NAME> and approved by this Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	A number of cases have been referred to during the hearing of the case by both the  counsel but we do not propose to refer to all of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	We must start first with the cases decided by this Court and see what principles have been laid down for distinguishing revenue expenditure from expenditure in the nature of capital expenditure, and especially those cases which dealt with similar problems.
RatioOfTheDecision	We will first consider <CITATION_554839> (1).
Precedent	This was not a case arising under the Indian Income Tax Act but under the Madras Plantations Agricultural Income Tax Act, 1955, in which a section exactly similar to s. 10 (2) (xv) existed.
Precedent	In brief, the facts in that case were that the assessee had borrowed money for the purpose of purchasing the plantations and he claimed that in computing his agricultural income from these plantations the entire interest paid by him on moneys borrowed for the purpose of purchasing the plantation should be deducted as expenditure, under s. 5(e) of the Act.
Precedent	In (1) 8 S.C.R.
Precedent	60 1 53 I.T.R.
Precedent	186.
Argument	950  the Madras Act there was no provision similar to S. 10(2)   (iii) of the Ac t and thus interest was not expressly deductible as an allowance.
Argument	This <ORG> applied the test formulated by <ORG> in <NAME> v. <ORG>) and approved by the <ORG> in <CITATION_923991> (1), and held that the payment of interest was a revenue expenditure.
Argument	It observed that "no new asset is acquired with it; no enduring benefit is obtained.
Argument	Expenditure incurred was part of circulating or floating capital of the assessee.
Argument	In ordinary commercial practice payment of interest would not be termed as capital expenditure."
Argument	This <ORG> further held that the expenditure was for the purpose of business.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> tried to distinguish that case on the ground that what was at issue was interest on loan and not expenditure incurred for ,obtaining the loan.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, there is no justification for drawing this distinction in India.
Precedent	As observed by Lord <NAME> in <ORG> v. Farmer(1) "the interest is, in truth, money paid for the use or hire of an i nstrument of their trade as much as is the rent paid for their office or the hire paid for a typewriting machine.
Precedent	It is an outgoing by means of which the <ORG> procured the use of the thing by which it makes a profit, and like any similar outgoing should be deducted from the receipts, to ascertain the taxable profits and gains which the <ORG> earns.
Precedent	Were it otherwise they might be taxed on assumed profits when, in fact, they made a loss."
Precedent	It will be remembered that there was no section like s. 10(2) (iii) of the Act in the English Income Tax Act.
Precedent	On the other hand, there were certain rules prohibiting the deduction in respect of "any capital withdrawn from, or any sum employed or intended to be employed as capital in such trade. "
Precedent	or "any interest which might have been made if any such sums as aforesaid had been laid out at interest."
Precedent	Lord <NAME> first held in that case that the express prohibitions did not apply to the facts of the case and then proceeded to discuss general principles.
Precedent	These observati ons show that where there is no express prohibition, an outgoing, by means of which an assessee procures the use of a thing by which it makes a profit, is deductible from the receipts of the business to ascertain taxable income.
Precedent	On the facts of this case, the money secured by the loan was the thing for the use of which this expenditure was made.
Precedent	In principle, apart from any statutory provisions, we see no distinction between interest in respect of a loan and an expenditure incurred for obtaining the loan.
Precedent	(1) 10 T.C.
Precedent	155.
Precedent	(2) 1 S.C.R.
Precedent	972 : 27 I.T.R.
Precedent	34.
Precedent	(3)5 T.C.
Precedent	693 at 707.
Precedent	951  Mr. <NAME> urges that these observations of Lord <NAME> should be limited to a case where temporary borrowings are made.
Precedent	It is true that <ORG> was dealing with the case of a company and the moneys that were borrowed were of a temporary character.
Precedent	But this fact was only relied on to hold that the moneys secured were not 'capital' within rule 3 of First Case, section 100 (5 and 6 Vic.
Precedent	Ch.
Precedent	35) of the Income Tax Act , 1 842, for Lord <NAME> observed at p. 706;  ".
Precedent	.
Precedent	.
Precedent	it appears to me, simply, amounts to this that the word "capital" must, in this rule, be held to bear a wholly artificial meaning differing altogether from the ordinary signification, though there be no context in the clause requiring that there should be given to it a meaning different from that which it bears in ordinary commercial transactions."
Precedent	He then referred to the decision in <NAME> v. <ORG>) to show that the borrowing by a joint-stock company of money by the issue of debentures does not amount to an increasing of the capital of the company.
Precedent	<CITATION_1043522> (2), this <ORG> again examined the question of distinguishing between capital expenditure and revenue expenditure.
Precedent	This <ORG> first held that on the facts of the case, cl.
Precedent	(iii) of s. 10(2) did not apply, because the assessee in that case had agreed to pay the balance of consideration due by the purchaser and this did not, in truth, give rise to a loan.
Precedent	The n <NAME>, J., observed :  "Whether a particular expenditure is revenue expenditure incurred for the purpose of business must be determined on a consideration of all the facts and circumstances, and by the application of principles of commercial trading.
Precedent	The question must 'be viewed in the larger context of business necessity or expediency.
Precedent	If the outgoing or expenditure is so related to the carrying on or conduct of the business, that it may be regarded as an integral part of the profit-earing process and not for acquisition of an asset or a right of a permanent character, the possession of which is a condition of the carrying on of the business, the expenditure may be regarded as revenue expenditure:' (1) 3 D.G.
Precedent	and J.
Precedent	123.
Precedent	(2) [1965] 1 S.C.R.
Precedent	770 :  56 I.T.R.
Precedent	52 L8Sup.
RatioOfTheDecision	Cl/63-14 We will now briefly deal with relevant decisions of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first case referred is In re <ORG>) In that case, <ORG> had incurred an expenditure of Rs.
Fact	28 lakhs as und erwriting commission paid to underwriters on an issue of 7 lakhs preference shares of Rs.
Argument	100/- each and the company claimed to deduct this amount as expenses under S. 9 (2)  (ix) of the Indian Income Tax Act (VII of 1918).
Argument	<NAME>, C.J., observed:  "If it is admitted that the cost of raising the original capital cannot be deducted from profit after the first year, it is dffficult to see how the cost of raising additional capital can be treated in a different way.
Precedent	Expenses incurred in raising capital are expenses of exactly the same character whether the capital is raised at the flotation of the company or thereafter : The Texas Land and Mortgage Company v. <NAME> (2)".
Precedent	He further observed that "as long as the law allows preliminary expenses and goodwill to be treated as assets, although of an intangible nature, the money so spent is in the nature of capital expenditure just as much as money spent in the purchase of land and machinery."
Precedent	The Chief Justice accordingly held that Rs.
Precedent	28 lakhs could not  be treated as expenditure (not in the nature of capital expenditure) solely incurred for the purpose of earning the profits of the company's business.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., also came to the same conclusion, and he thought that the ratio decidendi in <ORG> v. <NAME> (2 ) and the principles underlying the decision in <ORG> v. Watson(1) lent support to this conclusion.
Precedent	At this stage it would be convenient to consider the Case of <ORG> v. <NAME> (2) relied on in this decision.
Precedent	We have already mentioned that the statute law in England is different from the law in India and the observations of the learned Judges in the English cases must be appreciated in the light of the background of the English Income Tax Act.
Precedent	In this case a mortgage company had raised money by the issue of debentures and debenture stock and incurred expenses for the issue of mortgage and placing of such debentures and debenture-stock.
Precedent	The Company claimed to deduct thes e expenses but <ORG> held that the expenses could not be deducted under Schedule D of the English Income Tax Act as trading ex- (1) 1 I.T.C.
Precedent	125.
Precedent	(3) [1897] A.C. 1 (2) 3 T.C.
Precedent	2S5.
Precedent	953  penses.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., gave the following reasons for disallowing the claim:  "The amount paid in order to raise the money on debentures, comes off the 'amount advanced upon the debentures, and, therefore, is so much paid for the cost of getting it, but there cannot be one law for a company having sufficient money to carry on all its operations and another which is content to pay for the accommodation.
Precedent	This appears to me to be entirely concluded by the decision of yesterday.
Precedent	(<ORG> v. Bell(1)".
Precedent	In the course of arguments, <NAME> had remarked "It is only so much capital.
RatioOfTheDecision	A man wants to raise pound 1 00,000 of capital, and in order to do that he has to pay pound-4,000.
RatioOfTheDecision	That makes the capital pound 96,000.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is all."
RatioOfTheDecision	In reply to the argument of <ORG>, Q.C., that "the capital of the, company,  properly-so-called, is the share capital" <NAME>, <NAME> remarked :  "To the extent that you borrow you increase the capital of the company."
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, if one keeps in mind the background of the English Income Tax Act, the observations reproduced above have no relevance to cases arising under the Indian Income Tax Act .
Precedent	In face of rule 3, Case 1, S. 100 (5 & 6 Vict.
Precedent	Ch.
RatioOfTheDecision	35) prohibiting the deduction of any expenditure in respect of any sum employed or intended to be employed as capital, <NAME> and <NAME>, J<NAME> were only concerned with the question whether the amount secured by debentures and the amount obtained by the issue of debentures and debenture stock could be called capital employed or intended to be employed within the meaning of this rule.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rightly or wrongly, <ORG> have held that the amount obtained by the issue of debentures is capital employed within the meaning of the rule, but this does not give us any guidance in interpreting the words 'capital expenditure' occurring in s. 10 (2) (xv ) of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, <ORG> was wrong in relying on <ORG> v. <NAME>).
Precedent	But we do not say that the Tata Iron and Steel (1) 3 T.C.
Precedent	239.
Precedent	(2) 3 T.C.
Precedent	255.
Precedent	954  Co. (1) case was wrongly decided.
Precedent	Obtaining capital by issue of shares is different from obtaining loan by debentures.
Precedent	In <ORG> v. Commissioner of Income Tax(1), <ORG>, Nagpur, held that expenses for raising debenture loan required for changing the system of supplying current from D.C. to A.C. and for discharging a prior loan was not allowable as deduction of the company's assessable income.
Precedent	The Judicial Commissioner followed the case of <ORG> v. <NAME>) and In re <ORG>).
Precedent	After referring to these two cases, the only additional reason given was that "apart from authority it seems to us to stand to reason that money expended in obtaining capital must be treated as capital expendi ure."
RatioOfTheDecision	With great respect we must hold that this case was wrongly decided.
Precedent	<ORG> in <CITATION_1853481> (4)held that the expenditure incurred by the company a capital expenditure and was 10(2)(xv).
Precedent	<ORG> v. Jackson(5) Du#(1) and some other cases Madras(4) held that the expenditure raise a loan by debenture was therefore not deductible under s. relying on European investment and <ORG> drew a distinction between the borrowing of capital and securing merely temporary or day-to-day accommodation or banking or trading facilities.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to <ORG>, the expenses for borrowing capital could not be treated as revenue expenditure.
RatioOfTheDecision	This distinction may be valid in English Law but we are unable to appreciate how the distinction is valid under the Indian Income Tax Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	As the decision is mainly based on this distinction and relies inter alia on In re <ORG>(") and <ORG> v. Commissioner of Income Tax (2 we  must with respect hold that the case was wrongly decided.
Precedent	<CITATION_450105> Court relying on <ORG> V. William Holtham(3) and the decision in <CITATION_1853481> (4) held that on the facts and circumstances of that case, brokerage and commission of four annas on every maund of sugar paid by (2) 6 I.T.C.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	(3) 3 T.C.
Precedent	255.
Precedent	(1) 1 I.T.C.
Precedent	125.
Precedent	(4) 38 I.T.R.
Precedent	533.
Precedent	(5) 18 T.C.
Precedent	1.
Precedent	(6) 24 T.C.
Precedent	171.
Precedent	(7) 47 I.T.R.
Precedent	139.
RatioOfTheDecision	955  the assessee company was not revenue expenditure but capital expenditure.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, the derision, as far as the brokerage was concerned, was wrong, but we do not say anything in this case with respect to the decision as far as the commission on sale of goods was concerned.
Precedent	<ORG> examined the question in great detail in <CITATION_602365> (1), Bachawat, J., held that the loan of Rs.
Precedent	10 lakhs obtained by the company was an asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business of the assessee.
Precedent	He placed reliance on a number of cases,some of whic h we have already considered.
RatioOfTheDecision	But we are unable to agree that a loan obtained can be treated as an asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business of the assessee.
RatioOfTheDecision	A loan is a liability and has to be repaid and, in our opinion, it is erroneous to consider a liability as an asset or an advantage within the test laid down by <NAME> and approved and applied by this <ORG> in many cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, J., after referring to a number of cases, felt that the raising of capital by issue of debentures was a recognised mode of raising capital and he felt that the decided cases had laid down the proposition that borrowing money by the issue of debentures was an acquisition of capital asset and that any commission or expenditure incurred in respect thereof was of a capital nature and not to be considered as in the nature of revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	He was impressed by the fact that not a single case to the contrary was brought to his notice.
RatioOfTheDecision	But we have to decide the case on principle, and with respect it seems to us that he  erred in treating the loan as equivalent to capital for the purpose of s. 10(2) (xv) of the Act.
Precedent	<CITATION_184401603> of income Tax (2) <ORG> held that the expenditure incurred for raising loan for the carrying on of a business cannot in all cases be regarded as an expenditure of a capital nature.
Precedent	On the facts of the case they held that as construction and sale of the building was the sole business of the firm and the building was its stock-intrade, and the loan was raised and used wholly for the purpose of acquiring this stock-in- trade and not for obtaining any fixed assets or raising any initial capital or for expansion of the assessee's business, the expenditure incurred for the raising of loan was not an expenditure of capital nature but revenue expenditure.
Precedent	Although the conclusion of <ORG> was correct, we are not able to agree with the principle that the nature of the expenditure incurred in raising a loan would depend upon the nature and purpose of (1) 54 I.T.R.
Precedent	592.
Precedent	(2) 57 I .T.R.
Precedent	455.
Precedent	956  the loan.
Precedent	A loan may be intended to be used for the purchase of raw-material when it is negotiated, but the company may after raising the loan change its mind and spend it on securing capital assets.
Precedent	Is the purpose at the time the loan is negotiated to be taken into consideration or the purpose for which it is actually used ?
Precedent	Further suppose that in the accounting year the purpose is to borrow and buy raw- material but in the assessment year the company finds it unnecessary to buy raw-material and spends it on capital assets.
Precedent	Will the income tax officer decide the case with reference to what happened in the accounting year or what happened in the assessment year ?
Precedent	In our opinion, it was rightly held by the Nagpur Judicial Commissioner in <ORG> v. Commissioner of Income Tax(1) that the purpose for which the new loan was required was irrelevant to the consideration of the question whether the expenditure for obtaining the loan was revenue expenditure or capital exp enditure.
RatioOfTheDecision	To summarise this part of the case, we are of the opinion that (a) the loan obtained is not an asset or advantage of an enduring nature; (b) that the expenditure was made for securing the use of money for a certain period-, and (c) that it is irrelevant to consider the object with which the loan was obtained.
RatioOfTheDecision	Consequently, in the circumstances of the case, the expenditure was revenue expenditure within S. 10(2)(xv) .
RatioOfTheDecision	The last contention of Mr. <NAME> is that even if it is revenue expenditure, it was not laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., reviewed the case law in <CITATION_823444> (1) and observed as follows :  "The expression "for the purpose of the business" is wider in scope than the expression "for the purpose of earning profits."
Precedent	Its range is wide : it may take in not only the day to day running of a business but also the rationalisation of its administration and modernization of its machinery; it may include measures for the preservation of the business  and for the protection of its assets and property from expropriation, coercive process or assertion of hostile tide; it may also comprehend pay- ment of statutory dues and taxes imposed as a precondition to commence or for carrying on of a business; it may comprehend many other acts incidental to the carrying on of a business."
Precedent	(1) 6 I.T.C.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	(2) [1964] 7 S.C.R.
Precedent	693: 53 I.T.R.
Precedent	140.
Precedent	957  Mr. <NAME> says that the act of borrowing money in this case was not 'incidental to the carrying on of a business.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to accept this contention.
Precedent	<CITATION_1627616> (") this Court held that <ORG>, an investment company, when it borrowed money on debentures, the interest paid by it was incurred solely for the purpose of making or earning such income, profits or gains within the purview of S. 12(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act .
Precedent	It held on a review of the facts that the transaction was voluntarily entered into in order indirectly to facilitate the running of the business of the company and wa s made on the ground of commercial expediency.
Precedent	This case, in our opinion, directly covers the present case, although Mr. <NAME> suggests that the case of an investment company stands on a different footing from the case of a manufacturing company.
RatioOfTheDecision	In some respects, their position may be different but in determining the question whether raising money is incidental to a business or not, we cannot discern any difference between an investment company and a manufacturing company.
RatioOfTheDecision	We may mention that in that case this <ORG> was not considering whether the expenditure was in the nature of a capital expenditure or not, because it was agreed all through that the expenditure was not in the nature of capital expenditure, and the only question which this <ORG> dealt with was whether the expenditure was incurred solely for the purpose of making or earning income, profits or gains.
RatioOfTheDecision	The case of <CITATION_1050499> (1) also supports the conclusion we have arrived at on this part of the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was held in that case that the p ayment of interest and a sum equivalent to 11/16th of the profits of the business of the assessee in pursuance of an agreement for obtaining loan from the lender were in a commercial sense expenditure wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the assessees business and they were, therefore, deductible revenue expenditure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before we conclude we must deal with the point raised by Mr. <NAME> that <ORG> erred in law in preferring the findings of the Income Tax Officer to that of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not necessary to decide this question but it seems to us that in a reference <ORG> must accept the findings of fact made by <ORG> and it is for the person who has applied for a reference to challenge those findings first by an application under s. 66(1) .
RatioOfTheDecision	If he has.
Precedent	failed to file an application under (1) 20 I.T.R.
Precedent	1.
Precedent	(2)  3 S.C.R.
Precedent	359 : 42 I.T.R.
Precedent	7.
Precedent	958  S.66(1) expressly raising the question about the validity of the findings of fact, he is not entitled to urge  before <ORG> that the findings are vitiated for one reason or the other.
Precedent	To conclude we hold that the expenditure of Rs.
Precedent	84,633/- was not in the nature of capital expenditure and was laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the assessee's business.
RatioOfTheDecision	The answer to the question referred, therefore, must be in the affirmative.
RulingByPresentCourt	The appeal is allowed, the judgment of <ORG> set aside and the question referred answered in the affirmative.
RulingByPresentCourt	The appellant will have its costs incurred here and in <ORG>.
RulingByPresentCourt	Appeal allowed.
Precedent	959
