Fact	JUDGMENT Viscount <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This is an appeal by special leave from a judgment dated the 2nd June, 1919 of a <ORG> appointed under the Martial Law Ordinances of 1919 and sitting at Lahore.
Fact	By that judgment twenty of the twenty-one appellants were convicted of offences under Section 121 of the Indian Penal Code, that is to say, of waging or attempting to wage war against the King or abetting the waging of such war and were sentenced to death and forfeiture of property; but it is understood that as to some of them the death sentence has since been commuted.
Fact	The remaining appellant, <NAME>, son of <NAME>, was convicted of an offence under Section 412 of the same Code, that is to say, of receiving stolen property from dacoits, and was sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for seven years.
Fact	The question raised on the appeal is as to the competency of the <ORG> to try the appellants for those offences.
Fact	2.
Fact	The facts may be stated as follows: At the end of March and during the first days of April, 19 19, there was serious unrest in certain parts of the province of the Punjab, and this unrest culminated on the 10th April in the outbreak of open rebellion at Amritsar in that province and elsewhere, and the offences of which the appellants have been found guilty were committed at Amritsar on that date.
Fact	The occurrences of the 10th April are stated in the judgment of the Commissioners as follows:-  On April 10th, 1919, about noon, after the arrest of <NAME> and <NAME>, disorder broke out in Amritsar, in the course of which an attempt was made to invade the Civil Station by a mob which had to be turned back by fire from troops and police.
Fact	Shortly after this mob attacked the <ORG> situated in the City, brutally murdered Mr. <NAME>, manager, and Mr. <NAME>, assistant manager, sacked and burnt the bank, and looted the godown, which contained cloth and other goods to the value of several lakhs of rupees.
Fact	The <ORG> and Alliance Banks were subsequently sacked.
Fact	A Mission Hall, Church and the Religious  <ORG> Depot were also attacked and burnt by the mob.
Fact	There was no reason why those institutions should have been singled out by the mob or their leaders except that, us the evidence shows, they were out to destroy the visible manifestations of British connection with the country.
Fact	3.
Fact	It was proved that the appellants, with the possible exception of <NAME>, wove members of the mob and took an active part in the attack on <ORG>, and there was evidence that some of them took part in the actual murder of the manager and assistant manager.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME> appear to have been the ringleaders.
Fact	<NAME> was found in possession of property looted from the <ORG>.
Fact	<NAME> was arrested on the 12th April and the other appellants on subsequent dates.
Fact	None of them were taken in arms or in the act of committing the offences with which they were charged.
Fact	4.
Fact	On the the 13th April the Governor-General in Council, acting under the Bengal State Offences Regulation No.
Fact	X of 1804 (which was exte nded to the Punjab by the Punjab Laws Act , 1872) made an order whereby, after reciting that he was satisfied that a state of open rebellion against the authority of the Government existed in the districts of Lahore and Amritsar, he suspended the functions of the ordinary <ORG> within those districts as regards the trial of persons of the classes referred to in the Regulation taken in arms in open hostility to <ORG> or in the act of opposing by force of arms the authority of the same, or in the actual commission of any overt act of rebellion against the State, or in the act of openly aiding and abetting the enemies of <ORG> within those districts, and established Martial Law within those districts; and by the same order lie directed the immediate trial by Courts Martial of all such persons.
Fact	Similar orders were subsequently made in respect of the districts of Gujrauwala and Gujrat.
Fact	5.
Fact	On the 14th April the Governor-General, acting under Section 72 of the Government  of India Act, 1915, made and promulgated the Martial Law Ordinance No.
Fact	I of 1910, whereby it was provided that every trial in the districts of Lahore and Amritsar held under the Bengal State Offences Regulation, 18C4, should, instead of being held by a Court-Martial, be held by a <ORG> consisting of three persons appointed in this behalf by <ORG>.
Fact	It was provided that at least two members of every such <ORG> should be persons who had served as Sessions Judges or had such other legal qualification as therein mentioned.
Fact	It was also provided that a <ORG> should have the powers of a general Court-Martial under the Indian Army Act , 1911, and should follow so far as might be the procedure prescribed by that Act, but power was reserved to <ORG> to direct that the <ORG> should follow the procedure of a summary general Court-Martial.
RatioOfTheDecision	The finding and sentence of a <ORG> not to be subject to confirmation by the military authorities.
Statute	Section 7 of the Ordinance was a s follows :-  7.
Statute	Save as provided by Section 6 , the provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to all persons referred to in the said Regulation who are charged with any of the offences therein described, committed on or after the 13th April, 1919.
Fact	6.
Fact	By subsequent Ordinances the provisions of the above-mentioned Ordinance No.
Fact	1 of 1919 were extended to Gujrauwala and Gujrat, and power was given to impose a minor punishment in lieu of the death sentence.
Argument	7.
Argument	In pursuance of the above-mentioned Ordinance No 1 of 1919, <ORG> duly appointed a <ORG>, consisting of Lieut-colonel <NAME>, C. I. E., District and Sessions Judge; <NAME>, Esq., <ORG>, District and Sessions Judge; and <NAME>, Esq.
Argument	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	From the above statement it is clear that the appellants could not, if no further step had been taken, have been brought before the <ORG> for trial.
RatioOfTheDecision	They had not been taken in the act of committing any of the offences referred to in Regulation X of 1804, and the of fences with which they were charged were committed before the 13th April, 1919, the date mentioned in Section 7 of the Ordinance.
Fact	But on the 21st April, 1919, the Governor-General, acting under Section 72 of the Government of India Act, 1915, made a further Ordinance (referred to as Ordinance No.
Fact	IV of 1919) in the following terms :  GOVERNMENT OF INDIA.
Fact	"Legislative DEPARTMENT "NOTIFICATION.
Fact	"Smile the 21st April 1919.
Fact	"An Ordinance further to extend the Application of the Martial Law Ordinance, 1919.
Fact	"Whereas an emergency has arisen which renders it necessary to provide that commissions appointed under the Martial Law Ordinance, 1919, shall have power to try person and offences other than those specified in the said Ordinance:  "Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by Section 72 of the Government of India Act, 1915, the Governor-General is pleased to make and promulgate the following Ordinance:-  "Ordinance No.
Fact	IV of 1919.
Fact	"Short Title.
RatioOfTheDecision	"1.
RatioOfTheDecision	This Ordinance may be called the Martial Law (F urther Extension Ordinance, 1919.
Fact	"commissions under Martial Lair Ordinance, 1919, to try such cases as <ORG> may direct.
Fact	"2.
Fact	Notwithstanding anything contained in the Martial Law Ordinance,' 1919, <ORG> may, by general or special order, direct that any commission appointed under the said Ordinance shall try any person charged with any offence committed on or after the 30th March, 1919, and thereupon the provisions of the said Ordinance shall apply to such trials accordingly, and a commission may pass in respect of any such offence any sentence authorised by law.
Fact	"<NAME>, " Viceroy and Governor-General, "<NAME>, "Off.
Fact	Secretary to the Government of India."
Argument	9.
Argument	On the 22nd April the Governor-General in Council made a further order under Regulation X of 1804, whereby after reciting that he was satisfied that a state of open rebellion existed in the districts of Lahore, Amritsar, Gujrauwala and Gujrat, he suspended the functions of the ordinary <ORG> in those di stricts in so far as trials held before <ORG> in accordance with the provisions of Martial Law Ordinance No.
Argument	IV of 1919 were concerned.
Argument	10.
Argument	<ORG> was, instructed by <ORG> that the <ORG> appointed' under Ordinance No.
Fact	IV were to be used only for the trial of offence arising out of the recent disturbances.
Fact	11.
Fact	The appellants having been charged with offences under various sections of the Penal Code , including as.
Fact	121, 302 and 412, as having been committed on the 10th April, <ORG>, acting under Ordinance No.
Fact	IV of 1919, directed that they should be tried by the Court of Commissioners appointed under Ordinance No.
Fact	I sitting at Lahore with the powers of a summary general Court-Martial, and convened the Commissioners for that purpose.
Fact	The trial accordingly took place on the 29th May and the following days, and judgment was pronounced on the 2nd June.
Fact	The Commissioners, while convicting the appellants (other than <NAME>) of an offenc e under a 121, added that certain of the accused could also be convicted under Section 302 , i.e., for murder, but that they saw no necessity to discriminate, especially as in circumstances like those before them there was only one possible penalty for the offence or offences committed.
Fact	Thereupon special leave was obtained from the <ORG> to present this appeal.
Fact	12.
Fact	Before the hearing of the appeal it was suggested by counsel for the appellants that Ordinance No.
Fact	IV of 1919 was capable of being construed as intended only to extend the operation of Ordinance No.
Fact	I to offences committed before the 13th April, but not earlier than the 30th March, and accordingly that this Ordinance (like Ordinance No.
Fact	I) applied only to persons taken in the act of committing one of the offences specified in Regulation X of 1804.
RatioOfTheDecision	In their Lordships' opinion the Ordinance cannot be so construed.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is introduced by a recital that an emergency has arisen which renders it necessary to provide that <ORG> appointed under the ear lier Ordinance shall have power to try persons and offences other than those specified in that Ordinance; and it empowers a <ORG> to try any person charged with any offence committed after the specified date, and to pass in respect of such offence any sentence authorised by law.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be difficult to find words indicating more clearly that the operation of the Ordinance is not to be confined to the persons and offences described in the earlier Ordinance.
RatioOfTheDecision	13.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was then argued that, if Ordinance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	IV applied (subject to the direction of <ORG>) to any person and to any offence known to the law, it was invalid by reason of the provisions of Section 65 , Sub-sections (2) and (3) of the Government of India Act, 1915; and this contention, upon which the argument for the appellants mainly rested must now be examined  14.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 65 , Sub-section (2), when read with Section 72 , prevents the Governor-General from making-  any law affecting the authority of <ORG>, or any part of the unw ritten laws or constitution of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland whereon may depend in any degree the allegiance of any person to the <ORG> of the United Kingdom, or affecting the sovereignty or dominion of the <ORG> over any part of British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was contended that the Ordinance under consideration, by Cepriving British subjects in India of the right to be tried in the ordinary course by the established <ORG>, affected the 1 unwritten laws or constitution whereon the allegiance of His Majesty's subjects in India depends, and was accordingly invalidated by the sub-section last referred to; and reference was made to <NAME>'s case (1608) 7 Rep. 5 and to the maxim " protectio trahit subjectionemet subjectio protectionem," It is not easy to understand how the substitution for the ordinary Indian Courts- which are themselves of statutory origin-of another tribunal of a judicial character, can be said to affect in any way the unwritten laws or constitution of the country; but, apart f rom this observation, the argument appears to rest upon a misconception as to the meaning and effect of the sub-section.
RatioOfTheDecision	The subsection does not prevent <ORG> from passing a law which may modify or affect a rule of the constitution or of the common law upon the -observance of which some person may conceive or allege that his allegiance depends.
RatioOfTheDecision	It refers only to laws which directly affect the allegiance of the subject to the <ORG>, as by a transfer or qualification of the allegiance or a modification of the obligations thereby imposed.
Precedent	In the case of In the matter of <NAME> (1870) 6 Beng.
Precedent	L. R. 469, 477, the meaning of a similar provision in the Act of 1833 (3 & 4 Will.
Precedent	IV, c. 85, Section 43 ) was discussed at length, and Mr, Justice <NAME> stated his opinion as follows :-  But I think It right to say that in my judgment the words 'whereon may depend, & c.,' do not refer to any assumed conditions precedent to be performed by or on behalf of the <ORG> as necessary to found the allegiance of  the subject, but to laws or principles which prescribe the nature of the allegiance, viz., of the relations between the Crown on the one hand and the inhabitants of particular provinces, or particular classes of the community, on the other; 'and obviously such laws and principles as these are not touched by the local Acts which are impeached before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since that judgment was pronounced the provision so interpreted has been re-enacted substantially in the same terms in the Acts of 1861 and 1915; and many statutes and ordinances have been passed in India which were similar in effect to the Regulation then under consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	If their Lordships were to adopt the argument now pressed upon them, they would be casting doubt upon a long course of legislation and judicial decision which must be presumed to have been known to and in the view of <ORG> when the Act of 1915 was passed.
RatioOfTheDecision	See <NAME> v. <NAME> (1878) 3 App.
Precedent	Cas.
Precedent	389, 907.
Precedent	Reference may also be made to the recent same of <CITATION_1373 432> (1919) L. R. 48 I.
Precedent	A.
Precedent	176, 191 where a like argument was rejected by the <ORG>.
Precedent	This argument, therefore, cannot prevail.
Precedent	17.
Precedent	Turning now to Section 65 , Sub-section (3), of the Act of 1915, that sub-section is as follows:-  The Governor-General in <ORG> has not power, without the previous approval of the, Secretary of <ORG> in <ORG>, to make any law empowering any court, other than a high court, to sentence to the punishment of death any of His majesty's subjects born in Europe, or the children of such subjects, or abolishing any High Court.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	Upon this enactment it was argued that Ordinance No.
Precedent	IV, if it subjects any person whatever to be tried for his life by a <ORG> in lieu of the ordinary <ORG> or <ORG>, is an infringement of the provision which prevents the Governor-General in <ORG> from empowering any Court other than a High Court to' sentence to death any of His Majesty's subjects born in Europe, and accordingly that the Ordinance is void not only as to  persons falling within Sub-section (3) but altogether.
Precedent	The answer to this contention is to be found in Section 2 of the Government of India (Amendment) Act, 1016, which provides that there shall be inserted at the end of Section 84 of the Act of 1915 the following words:-  A law made by any authority in British India and repugnant to any provision of this or any other Act of <ORG> shall, to the extent of that repugnancy, but not otherwise, be void.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	It appears to their Lordships that if the Ordinance in question in this cast contravenes Section 65(3) of the Act of 1915, it may properly be described as "repugnant" to that section so far as British-born subjects are concerned, and if so it is void to the extent of that repugnancy, but not otherwise.
Precedent	This argument therefore, also Tails.
Precedent	20.
RulingByPresentCourt	For the above reasons their Lordships will humbly advise His Majesty that this appeal fails and should be dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	There will be no order as to costs.
