Fact	PETITIONER: THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: <ORG>.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 01/11/1954 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> MAHAJAN, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> CITATION: 1955 AIR 98 1955 SCR (1) 849 ACT: Indian Income-tax Act , 1922 (Act XI of 1922), s. 4-Profits derived by the assessee- Whether arose or were received in British Indian in the present case.
Fact	HEADNOTE: The assessee company with its registered office in Mysore State and its management vested in <ORG>,Madras sold Chrome ore to buyers mostly outside India who were in America and Europe.
Fact	The sales to the purchasers in Europe were put through in London by <ORG>, London, the agent of the assessee company in Europe, the said agent signing the contracts for sale in London.
Fact	The sales to purchasers in America were effected through <ORG>, New, York, who bought for undisclosed principals, the contracts for sale to American purchasers b eing signed by <ORG>, New York, in America and by <ORG> (Madras) in Madras.
Fact	Under both forms of contracts with European pur.
Fact	chasers and American purchasers the price was <ORG>.
Fact	Provision was made for weighment, sampling and assay of goods at destination.
Fact	The course of dealing between the assessee company and the purchasers was as follows:- Before the goods were actually shipped, the buyers used to open a confirmed irrevocable <ORG>' credit with some first class Bank in London.
Fact	Being informed of the opening of such credit <ORG>, London, sent intimation to <ORG>, Madras, and the latter in its turn used to pass on the intimation by letter addressed to the assesses company.
Fact	On receipt of such intimation the assessee company placed the contracted goods on board the steamer at Madras and obtained a bill of lading in its own name.
Fact	If hereafter the assessee company used to make out a provisional invoice on the basis of the bill of lad ing weight and contract price for 48 percent Cr.
Fact	203 and used to draw a bill of exchange on the buyers' Bank, where the letter of credit had been opened, for 90 percent of the amount of the provisional invoice payable at sight in the case of European contracts and 80 percent of the amount of the provisional invoice at 90 days' sight in the case of American contracts end in either case the bills of exchange used to be drawn in favour of <ORG>, London.
Fact	The bill of exchange together with the bill of lading endorsed in blank by the assessee company and the provisional invoice was then negotiated with <ORG>, Madras, the bankers of the assesses company, who used to credit the assessee company with the amount of the bill of exchange.
Fact	<ORG>, Madras, then forwarded the documents to <ORG>, London, who used to present the bill of exchange to the buyers' Bank in London, and upon the bill of exchange being accepted <ORG>, London, used to deliv er the bill of lading and the invoice to the buyers' <ORG>.
Fact	The buyers' <ORG> in due course used to pay the amount of the bill of exchange to the Eastern <ORG> Ltd., London.
Fact	Thereafter, on arrival of the goods and after weighment and assay, the sale price was ascertained and the balance of price after deducting the payments made against the bill of exchange, used to be paid to the Eastern <ORG> Ltd., London, which was the assessee company s agent and <ORG>er in London.
Fact	It was common ground between the Income-tax department and assessee company that the income arose at the place where the sales took place.
Fact	It was contended on behalf of the department that the sales must be regarded as having taken place in British India because (i) the price and delivery of goods were on <ORG> terms, (ii) that in the European contracts, the insurance, if any, was to be the concern of the buyers, (iii) that the payment of the 80 percent or 90 percent as the case may be was made in Madras by the Eastern <ORG> Ltd., Madras, and as on  these facts the property passed at Madras, ,;he sales were completed in British India.
Fact	Held, (repelling the contention) that upon the terms of the contracts in question and the course of dealings between the parties ,he property in the goods could not have passed to the buyer earlier than the date when the bill of exchange was accepted by the <ORG> in London and the documents were delivered by the assesses company's agent, the Eastern <ORG> Ltd., London, to the duyers <ORG> and this admittedly always took place in London and in the promises the sales took place outside British India and ex 851 hypothesi the profits derived from such sales arose Outside British India.
Fact	Held further, that the contention submitted on behalf of the department that irrespective of the place where the sales may have taken place the profits derived from such sales were received in Madras, as after shipment the assessee company, through its managing agent` in Madras, prepared provisional invoices and drew bills of exchange for 80 percent  or 90 percent as the case may be of the amount of such invoices and handed over the same to <ORG>, Madras, and received the amount of the bill of exchange from them in Madras and that the receipt of this payment ,by the assessee company was really the receipt of the price of the goods and amounted to receipt of profits in Madras, was also devoid of force because the price was paid on behalf of the buyers by their respective <ORG> in London to <ORG>, London, which was the agent of the assessee company.
Fact	The first receipt of the price was by <ORG>, London, on behalf of the sellers and the balance of the price ascertained after weighment and assay and deducting the amount paid on the bill of exchange was similarly received in London by <ORG>, London, on behalf of the assesses company and subsequent adjustment made in the books of <ORG>, London, did not operate as receipt of profits in British India.
Fact	<NAME> (L.R.
Fact	A.C. 586)  referred to.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION :Civil AppealNo.
Fact	117 of 1953.
Fact	Appeal from the Judgment and Order dated the 29th day of March, 1951, of <ORG> at Madras in Case Referred No.
Fact	44 of 1948.
Fact	<NAME>, Solicitor-General for India (<NAME>, with him) for the appellant.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME> for the respondent.
Fact	1954.
Fact	November 1.
Fact	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS J.-This is an appeal from the judgment pronounced by <ORG> at Madras on the 29th March, 1951, on a consolidated reference by <ORG> under section 66(1) of the Income-tax Act whereby <ORG> answered.
Fact	in the affirmative both the referred questions which were expressed in the following terms;  852  (1) Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the profits derived by the assessee company 'from sales made to European and American buyers arose outside British India ?
Fact	(2) Whether on the facts and in the circum stances of the case the profits derived by the assessee company from sales made to European and American buyers were received outside British India ?
Fact	The above Questions of law arose out of proceedings for the assessment to income-tax of the respondent, <ORG> (hereinafter referred to as the asseessee company), for the years 1939-1940, 1940 1941, 1941-1942 and 1942-1943.
Fact	The facts leading up to the reference as found by <ORG> are shortly as follows: The assessee company is a private limited company registered in the Mysore State under the Mysore Company Regulations and has its registered office at Sinduvalli in Mysore State.
Fact	The management and control of the assessee company was vested in Messrs. <ORG>, another private limited company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act , having its registered office at No.
Fact	15, Armenian Street, Madras.
Fact	The assessee company owns chromite mines in Mysore State.
Fact	Chrome ores are extracted from the mine s and converted into a merchantable product and then sold to buyers mostly outside India.
Fact	A very small proportion of the total sales is effected in India and for the purposes of this case may be left out of consideration.
Fact	The sales are mostly to buyers in America and Europe.
Fact	The sales to the purchasers in Europe are put through in London by <ORG>, London, which is the agent of the assessee company in Europe holding a power of attorney from the assessee company.
Fact	The contracts for sale to European purchasers are signed by <ORG>, in London.
Fact	The sales to purchasers in America are effected through Messrs. <NAME> & Co., who buy for undisclosed principals.
Fact	The contracts for sale to American purchasers are signed by <NAME> & Co., presumably in America and by <ORG>, in Madras.
Fact	853  Specimen forms of contracts with European purchasers and those with American purchasers are set out in the order of the <ORG> dated the 22nd January,1948, out  of which the present reference arises.
Fact	Under both forms of contracts the price was <ORG> or <ORG>.
Fact	A very small quantity of goods was sold F.O.B.
Fact	<ORG> and the same need not be considered here.
Fact	Provision was made for weighment, sampling and assay of goods at destination.
Fact	The terms of payment under the European contract were as follows:- Payment.-Buyers to open a confirmed irrevocable Bankers credit in favour of Messrs. <ORG>, Madras (to be advised to sellers) through <ORG>, for 90 per cent.
Fact	(ninety per cent..) of the Provincial (sic) Invoice against documents.
Fact	Documents to consist of:-  1.
Fact	Bills of Lading,  2.
Fact	Provisional Invoice.
Fact	Provisional invoice to be based on Bill of Lading weight and contract price for 48 per cent.
Fact	Cr.
Fact	203.
Fact	Balance on ascertainment of weight and analysis to be paid in London to <ORG>, within 10 days of the final invoice, based on outturn weights and assays.
Fact	The corresponding terms of payment under the American contracts  were as follows:-  Payment.-Letter of credit for eighty per cent.
Fact	(80 per cent.)
Fact	of invoice value to be available against drafts at ninety (90) days' sight with documents attached to be opened immediately in London in favour of the seller.
Fact	Balance estimated twenty (20 per cent.)
Fact	of the margin due to be paid by telegraphic transfer through London on receipt of information as to assay and outturn which should be submitted within a month after the arrival of the steamer at destination, Charges for such telegraphic transfer for account of beneficiary.
Fact	The European contracts also provided for insurance by buyers but no such provision was made in the American contracts.
Fact	109  854  The course of dealing as found by <ORG> was as follows.
Fact	Before the goods were actually shipped, the buyers used to open a confirmed irrevocable Bankers' credit with some first class bank in London.
Fact	Being informed of the opening of such credit <ORG>, London sent intimation to <ORG>, Madras,  and the latter in its turn used to pass on the intimation by letter addressed to the' assessee company.
Fact	A specimen of such letter is also set out in the order of <ORG>.
Fact	in such communication <ORG>, Madras, informed the assessee company that I 'in accordance with advices received by letter from our London Office, a confirmed and irrevocable credit has been opened in your favour by Messrs. <ORG>, London, for account of Messrs. <NAME> & Co., New York, for a sum not exceeding pound.
Fact	7,300 (seven thousand three hundred pounds sterling) in all, available by delivery to us on or before 15th January, 1940, of the following documents...............
Fact	Towards, the end of the letter <ORG>, Madras, used to write that they were "prepared in our options as customary to negotiate drafts drawn in terms of the arrangement provided that the documents as above mentioned appear to us to be in order. "
Fact	The letter concluded with a warning that the advice wa s "given for your guidance and without involving any rosponsi- bility on the part of this <ORG>. "
Fact	On receipt of such intimation the assessee company placed the contracted goods on board the steamer at Madras and obtained A bill of lading in its own name.
Fact	As already mentioned, the shipments were made principally at Madras Port.
Fact	Thereafter, the assessee company used to make out a provisional invoice on the basis of the bill of lading weight and contract price for 48 per cent' Cr.
Fact	203 and used to draw a bill of exchange on the buyers <ORG>, where the letter of credit had been opened, for 90 per cent.
Fact	of the amount of the provisional invoice payable at sight in the case of European contracts and 80 per cent.
Fact	of the amount of the provisional invoice at 90 days' sight in the case of American contracts and in either case the bills of exchange used to be drawn in favour of <ORG>, London.
Fact	The bill of exchange together with the relative bill of lading endorsed in blank by the assessee company and the p rovisional invoice was then negotiated with <ORG>, Madras, the bankers of the assessee company, Who used to credit the assessee company with the amount of the bill of exchange.
Fact	<ORG>, Madras, then forwarded the documents to <ORG>, London, who used to present the bill of exchange to the buyers' <ORG> in London and upon the bill of exchange being accepted <ORG>, London, used to deliver the bill of lading and the invoice to the buyers' <ORG>.
Fact	The buyers <ORG> in due course used to pay the amount of the bill of exchange to <ORG>, London.
Fact	Thereafter, on arrival of the goods and' after weighment and assay, the sale price was ascertained and the balance of price, after deducting the payments made against the bill of exchange, used to be paid to <ORG>, London, which was the assessee company's agent and banker in London.
Fact	On the facts stated above the Income-tax Officer assessed the assessee company on the entire profits in re spect of these sales on the footing that they arose and were also received in British India.
Fact	On appeal, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner confirmed the assessment.
Fact	The assessee company went up on appeal to <ORG>.
Fact	The <ORG> by its order dated the 22nd January, 1948, came to the conclusion that the sales took place outside British India and that the money in respect of such sales was also received by the agent of the.
Fact	assessee company in London.
Fact	The Commissioner of Income-tax thereupon applied to the Appellate <ORG> requiring the latter to state a case and refer certain questions of law said to &rise out of the order of the <ORG>.
Fact	The Appellate <ORG> accordingly referred the two questions of law hereinbefore set out.
Fact	<ORG> in a well reasoned judgment upheld the decision of the Appellate <ORG> and answered the two questions in the affirmative and against the Commissioner of Income-tax.
Fact	The Commissioner of Income-tax' has now preferred this appeal w ith a certificate of fitness from <ORG>.
Argument	It appears from the statement of case as also from the order of <ORG> that it was agreed between the department and the assessee company that the income arose at the place, wherever that be, where, the sales took place.
Argument	This was not disputed before <ORG> or before us although in the appellant's statement of case it was suggested that this was erroneous.
Argument	The point for determination, therefore, is as to where the sales took place.
Argument	Learned Solicitor-General appearing in support of this appeal contends that having regard to the terms of the contracts the sales must be regarded as having taken place in British India.
Argument	The facts strongly relied on by him are  (i) that the price and delivery of goods were on <ORG> terms, (ii) that in the European contracts the insurance, if any, was to be the concern of the buyers and (iii) that payment of the 80 per cent.
Argument	or 90 per cent.
Argument	as the case may be was made in Madras by <ORG>, Madr as, to the assessee company on the delivery of the documents.
Argument	All these facts taken together indicate, according to his submission, that the property in the goods passed at Madras and the sales accordingly were completed in British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to accept this line of reasoning.
Statute	According to section 4 of the Indian Sale of Goods Act a contract of sale of goods is a contract whereby the seller transfer,% or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a price and where under a contract of sale the property in the goods is transferred from the seller to the buyer, the contract is called a sale, but where the transfer of property in the goods is to take place at a future time or subject to some condition thereafter to be fulfilled, the contract is called an agreement to sell.
Statute	By sub-section (4) of that section an agreement to sell becomes a sale when the time elapses or the conditions are fulfilled subject to which the property in the goods is to be transferred.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 18 of the Act clearly  indicates that in the case of sale of unascertained goods no property in the goods is transferred to the buyer unless and until the goods, are ascertained.
RatioOfTheDecision	In 857, the present case, the contracts were always for sale of unascertained, goods.
RatioOfTheDecision	Skipping over sections 19 to 22 which deal with contract of sale of specific goods we come to section 23 which lays down that where there is a contract for the sale of unascertained or future goods by description and goods of that description and in a,, deliverable state are unconditionally appropriated to the contract, either by the seller with the assent of the buyer or by the buyer with the assent of the seller, the property in the goods thereupon passes to the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is suggested that as soon as the assessee company placed the goods on board the steamer named by the buyer at the Madras Port the goods became ascertained and the property in the goods passed immediately to the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	This argument, however, overlooks the important word "unconditionally" used in the se ction.
RatioOfTheDecision	The requirement of the section is not only that there shall be appropriation of the goods to the contract but that such appropriation must be made unconditionally.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is further elaborated by section 25 which provides that where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods or where goods are subsequently appropriated to the contract, the seller may, by the.
RatioOfTheDecision	terms.
RatioOfTheDecision	of the contract or appropriation,, reserve the right of disposal of the goods until certain conditions are fulfilled.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a case, notwithstanding the delivery of the goods to the buyer, or to a carrier or other bailer for the purpose of transmission to the buyer, the property in the goods does not pass to the buyer until the conditions imposed by the seller are fulfilled.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question in this case, therefore, is: was there an unconditional appro- priation of the goods by merely placing them on the ship ?
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that the price and delivery was <ORG>, Madras but the contracts themselves clearly required the buyers to open a con firmed irrevocable Bankers' credit for, the requisite percentage of the invoice value to be available against documents.
RatioOfTheDecision	This clearly indicated that the buyers would not be entitled to the documents,, that is, the bill of lading and the provisional invoice, until payment of the requisite percentage was made upon the bill of exchange.
RatioOfTheDecision	The bill of lading is the document of title to the goods and by this term the assessee company clearly reserved the right of disposal, of the goods until the bill of exchange *as paid'.'
RatioOfTheDecision	Placing of the goods on board the steamer named by the buyer under a <ORG> contract clearly discharges the contractual liability of the seller as seller and the delivery to the buyer is complete and the goods may thenceforward be also at the risk of the buyer against which he may cover himself by taking out an insurance.
RatioOfTheDecision	Prima facie such delivery of the goods to the buyer and the passing of the risk in respect of the goods from the seller to the buyer are strong indications as to the passing als o of the property in the goods to the buyer but they are not decisive and may be negatived, for under section 25 the seller may yet reserve to himself the right of disposal of the goods until the fulfilment of certain conditions and thereby prevent the passing of property in the goods from him to the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	The facts found in this case are that the assessee company shipped the goods under bill of lading issued in its own name.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the contract it was not obliged to part with the bill of lading which is the document of title to the goods until the bill of exchange drawn by it on the buyers' Bank where the irrevocable letter of credit was opened was honoured.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is urged that under the provision in the contract for weighment and assay, which was ultimately to fix the price unless the buyer rightly rejected the goods as not being in terms of the contract, the passing of property in the goods could not take place until the buyer accepted the goods and the price was fully ascertained after weighment and assay.
RatioOfTheDecision	I t is submitted that being the position, the property in the goods passed and the sales were concluded outside British India, for the weighment, sampling, assay and the final fixation of the price could only take place under all these contracts outside British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not necessary for us to express any opinion on this extreme contention.
RatioOfTheDecision	Suffice it to say, for the purposes of this case, that in any event upon the terms of the contracts in question and the course of dealings between the parties the property in the goods could not have passed to the buyer earlier than the date when the bill of exchange was accepted by the buyers' <ORG> in London and the documents were delivered by the assessee company's agent, <ORG>, London, to the buyers" <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This admittedly, and as found by the Appellate, Tribunal, always took place in London.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must, therefore,.
RatioOfTheDecision	follow that at the earliest the ;property in the goods passed in London where the bill of lading was handed over to the buyers' <ORG> against t he acceptance of the relative bill of exchange.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the premises, <ORG> as well as <ORG> were quite correct in holding that the sales took place outside British India and, ex hypothesis the profits derived from such sales arose outside British India.
Argument	As to the second question, the.. learned Solicitor-General contends that irrespective of the place where the sale may have.
Argument	taken place the profits derived from such sales were received in Madras.
Argument	It is recalled that after shipment the assessee company, through its managing agent in Madras, prepared, provisional invoices and drew bills of exchange for 80 per cent.
Argument	or 90 per cent., as the case may be, of the amount of such invoices and handed over the same to <ORG>, Madras, and received the amount of the bill of exchange from them in Madras.
Argument	He contends that the receipt of this payment by the assessee company was really the receipt of the price of the goods and amounted to receipt of profits in Madras.
RatioOfTheDecision	He draws our attentio n to the terms of payment in the European contract and to the letter of intimation of the opening of the credit sent by <ORG> Madras, to the assessee company which have been quoted in part in the earlier part of this judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	He relies on the words "through <ORG>," appearing in the contract and the words "available by delivery to us" appearing in the letter.
RatioOfTheDecision	We do not think that those words support the contention of the learned Solicitor-General.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words "through <ORG>," appear to us to go with the preceding words "to be advised to sellers" which are put within brackets which seem to have been wrongly closed after the word sellers' instead of after the words <ORG> ".
RatioOfTheDecision	Ordinarily, the buyer opens a letter of credit with his <ORG> in favour of the seller and the words "through <ORG>," would be meaningless unless it was intended to mean' that the irrevocable credit which was in favour of the assessee company was to be operated upon  by the latter through <ORG> If that were the true meaning, then that certainly does not make <ORG>, the agent of the buyers.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words "available by delivery to us" occurring in the letter of <ORG>, Madras, do not appear to us to indicate that this was any part of the terms of the letter of credit.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was an intimation in accordance with the advice received by <ORG>, Madras, from <ORG>,, London, that the assessee company might avail itself of the letter of credit by delivery of the documents to <ORG>, Madras.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is made further clear by the latter part of the letter where <ORG>, Madras, expressed their willingness at their option to negotiate the drafts drawn in terms of the arrangement provided that the documents were in order, The concluding sentence of that letter whereby <ORG>, Madras, disown any responsibility in respect of the advice clearly militates against the suggestion  of the learned Solicitor-General.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, in these circumstances, impossible to accede to the argument that the payment of 80 per cent.
RatioOfTheDecision	or 90 per cent., as the case may be, of the amount of the provisional invoice by <ORG>, Madras, was a payment on account of the price.
RatioOfTheDecision	Normally, price is paid by or on behalf of the buyer.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this case the fact found is that <ORG>, Madras, and <ORG>, London., were agents of the assessee company.
RatioOfTheDecision	Neither 'of 'them had any relation with the buyers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, a payment by them cannot be regarded as a payment of the price.
Precedent	The true position is very clearly put by Lord <NAME> in The Prinz Adalbert(1) :  " When a shipper takes his draft, not as yet accepted, but accompanied by a bill of lading, indorsed in this way, and discounts it with a banker, he makes himself liable on the instrument as drawer, and he further makes the goods, which the bill of lading (1) L.R.
Precedent	[1917] A.C. 586, 589.
RatioOfTheDecision	861  represents, security for its payment.
RatioOfTheDecision	If,  in turn, the discounting banker surrenders the bill of lading to the acceptor against his acceptance, the inference is that he is satisfied to part with his security in consideration of getting this further party's liability on the bill, and that in so doing he acts with the permission and by the mandate of the shipper and drawer.
RatioOfTheDecision	This payment by <ORG>, Madras, therefore, is nothing but an advance made by them to their own customer on the security of the goods covered by the bill of lading reinforced by the 'benefit of the liability taken up by the assessee company as drawer of the bill which in its turn is backed by the confirmed and irrevocable credit of the buyers' <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	If this payment was on account of the price, why should the assessee company, as the seller, undertake any liability to <ORG>, as the drawer of the bill of exchange ?
RatioOfTheDecision	The truth of the matter is that the price was paid on behalf of the buyers by their respective <ORG>s in London to <ORG> ank Ltd., London which was the agent of the assessee company.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first receipt of the price, therefore, as pointed out by <ORG>, was by <ORG>, London, on behalf of the sellers.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no dispute that the balance of the price ascertained after weighment and assay and deducting the amount paid on the bill of exchange was similarly received in London by <ORG>, London, on behalf of the assessee company.
RatioOfTheDecision	The subsequent adjustment made in the books of <ORG>, London, did not operate as a receipt of profits in British India.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion <ORG> correctly answered the second question also in favour of the assessee company.
RulingByPresentCourt	For reasons stated above, this appeal must stand dismissed with costs and we order accordingly.
RulingByPresentCourt	Appeal dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	110  862
