Fact	<NAME> J.
Fact	(1) The plaintiff, <ORG> filed this suit against the defendant, <ORG> for a permanent injunction against the defendant restraining it from selling in any manner its product under the brand name Curechlor' or any other deceptively mark similar to the registered trade mark of the plaintiff 'Peclor' with respect to the pharmaceutical preparation known as Chloramphenicol.
Fact	Along with the suit the plaintiff filed this application under Order 39 Rules I and 2 and Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure with the same prayer for temporary injunction till the decision of the suit.
Fact	(2) The case of the plaintiff is that the plaintiff has been selling the said product under the trade mark 'Reclor' in India from the year 1971 to March 1, 1977 through the instrumentality' of its registered users, <ORG> and <ORG> and that from March 1.
Fact	1977 onwards till now the said product is being sold by its proposed registered users, <ORG> <ORG> It is alleged that the trade mark Reclor' with respect to the said substance was registered in favor of the plaintiff in India on May 4, 1966.
Fact	This was registered with respect to medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations.
Argument	The further allegations of the plaintiff are that in October 1984, the plaintiff came to know that the defendant had also been selling the medicine containing Chloramphenicol under the trade name Curechlor' in capsules.
Argument	According to the plaintiff the defendant has appropriated the trade mark of the plaintiff and has added the letters 'Cu' in the beginning and has added the letter h after c of the trade mark 'Reclor of the plaintiff and that the trade mark 'Curechlor' as adopted by the defendant is deceptively similar, visually and phonetically, with its trade mark 'Reclor'.
Argument	The plaintiff in paragraph 8 of the application made a specific averment that the defendant's preparations 'Curechlor' is likely to be supplied mistakenly by the druggists and chemists when 'Reclor' is pre scribed.
Argument	It was further stated that it was quite possible that even a trained nurse might be misled into giving to a patient 'Curechlor' in place of 'Reclor'.
Argument	(3) The question for consideration is as to whether the adoption of the trade mark 'Curechlor' by the defendant for its product containing the basic drug 'Chloramphenicol' amounts to inparations.
Argument	The further allegations of the plaintiff are that in <ORG> in the case of <CITATION_1389940> ., considered the question as to whether the word 'Dropovit' was deceptively similar to the word 'Protovit', both of them being vitamin preparations.
Argument	In this case <ORG> and <ORG> had applied for rectification of the registration granted in favor of <ORG> of the trade mark 'Dropovit' in respect of medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations and substances' <ORG> held that the question of deceptive similarity must be decided on the basis of class of goods to which the two trade marks applied.
Argument	It was obs erved that from the nature of the goods it was likely' that most of the customers would obtain a prescription from a doctor and show the same to the chemist before the purchase.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a case, except in the event of the handwriting of the doctor being very bad or illegible' the chance of confusion was remote.
Fact	<ORG> also on a comparison of the competing trade marks came to the conclusion that the trade mark 'Dropovit' was not deceptively similar to the trade mark Preterit Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the defendant, also cited a few English judgments relating to the cases of pharmaceutical preparations namely, Re : <ORG>, <ORG>, (1947) 2 AU.
Fact	E.R.
Fact	188,(2) <ORG>, (1966) Rpc 64(3) and <ORG> v. <ORG>, (1975) Rpc 545.
Fact	(4) He also referred to the decision in the case of <ORG>, Calcutta v. <ORG>, Kanpur, Air 1965 Punjab 17;(5) <CITATION_990811> , and Che <ORG> v. <NAME> and another,, (1979) 3 Iplr 193 (Born.
Fact	HC).
Fact	(7) He also referred to para 671 of Narayanan on Trade Marks and Passing-Off (Third Edition).
Fact	These judgments deal with cases of pharmaceutical preparations and a similar view has been taken in all these judgments as was * taken by <ORG> in <NAME> case (supra) i.e.
Fact	that the question of deceptive similarity must be decided on the basis of class of goods to which the two trade marks applied.
Fact	We have to judge the case of the plaintiff on the principal as stated above.
Fact	(4) The two trade marks in question are obviously not similar visually as the trade mark of the defendant starts with the letter 'Cu' preceding the entire trade mark 'Reclor' of the plaintiff.
Fact	There is also an addition of the letter 'h' after the letter 'c' of 'Reclor".
Fact	Phonetically also there is a distinct dissimilarity between the two trade marks 'Reclor' and 'Chrechlor'.
Fact	I do not agree with the submission of Mr. <NAME> oop <NAME> that there is a great similarity in the two marks phonetically as suggested by him that the letter 'cu' which creates the distinction in the two marks phonetically may sometimes be spoken feebly or may not be quite audible to a person with whom an order is placed for the sale of 'Reclor' It is also worth noting that that the name of the defendant company is <ORG> The defendant has filed its price list effective from July 1, 1985.
Fact	This shows that the plaintiff has brand names for a number of its preparations starting with the word 'Cure' such as 'Curecycline', 'Curemide, 'Curemox Curifam'.
Argument	Curebutorl 'Curepar and 'Curedopa Nothing has been alleged by plaintiff that the defendant has adopted the trade mark Curcchlor' dishonestly with a view to trade on the trade mark 'Reclor' of the plaintiff.
Argument	To the contrary the fact that the plaintiff's name is Curewsl and a number of its products have the letters 'Cure' appended in the beginning to its brands goes to show that the adoption .of She tr ade mark Curechlor' by the defendant for marketing 'Cholramphenical' which is the base drug, is a bean fide one.
Argument	The defendant's counsel explained that the defendant has adopted the letters 'Cure' from its trading style and has adopted the word 'chlor' from the product itself just as the plaintiff has done for Its mark 'Rcclor' as is the common practice with the pharmaceutical companies.
Argument	The preparation 'Chloramphenicol' which is being marketed by both the sides under ihe two brand names is admittedly a Schedule 'H" drug end as per sub-rule (9)(a) of Rule 65 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 substances specified in Schedule or Schedule X shall not be sold by retail except on and in accordance with the prescription of a- Registered Medical Practitioner.
Argument	The supply of drugs specified in Schedule or Schedule X to Registered Medical Practitioners, Hospitals, Dispensaries and Nursing Homes can also be made only against the signed order in writing which ha.)
Argument	to be preserved by the licensee for a period of two  years.
Argument	There arc conditions given for the purposes of preparation of prescriptions also with regard to the Schedule drugs.
Fact	Sub-rule (11) of Rule 65 says that persons dispensing a prescription containing a drug specified in Schedule H, like the drug in question, shall comply with the requirements as detailed there under which also places a number of restrictions on the dispensing chemists for their sale to customers.
Fact	The dispensing chemists also according to these rules have to be persons qualified in <ORG>.
Fact	Thus keeping in view these safeguards and restrictions regarding the stocking and sale to customers thereto by the chemists I am of the considered view that the chemists who alone are to sell the product in question to customers are not likely to be confused by the trade mark of the defendant when they have to sell the product of the plaintiff under the brand name 'Rector'.
Fact	It may also be stated that the plaintiff has not placed any material whatsoever on the record to prima facie sho w, nor even alleged that any particular person whether an ordinary customer or a chemist was misled to take the product of the defendant as that of the plaintiff.
Fact	The plaintiff has placed two cash memos on the record relating to the sale of the product of the defendant under the name 'Curechlor'.
RatioOfTheDecision	In both the cash memos the name of the patient as also the name of the doctor prescribing the same are duly given which showed that the preparation in question of the defendant is sold only on the prescription of a Medical Practitioner.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus in view of what has been said above I am of the view that the plaintiff does not have a goods prima facie case and it does not have a good chance of ultimate success in the suit for the perpetual injunction as prayed for by it.
Argument	(5) Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the plaintiff, also cited a number of judgments in support of his contention that the trade mark 'Curechlor' is deceptively similar to the trade mark 'Rector' in respect of medicinal preparations.
Argument	It was pointed ou t that in the case of <ORG> v. <ORG>, (8) a photo copy of which judgment was placed on the record, an order allowing a temporary injunction in favor of <ORG> plaintiff j respondent, restraining the defendant/appellant from using the trade mark 'Kempsillin' in respect of the medicinal preparation was affirmed.
Argument	In that case the plaintiff's registered trade mark was 'Campicillin'.
Precedent	A perusal of the judgment shows that the ratio to the decision in that case was that there was 99 per cent phonetical similarity in the two names.
Precedent	Such is not the position in the present case when we compare the two marks 'Reclor' and 'Curechlor'.
Precedent	In <ORG> v. <ORG> 1980 Iplr 117,(9) the Lucknow Bench of <ORG> held that the trade mark 'Winotone' amounted to infringement of the trade mark 'Vintone' when both of them were in respect of medicinal preparations.
Precedent	There is obviously a great similarity phonetically in both these marks.
Precedent	Besides  that the preparations in that case were mere tonics and were not Schedule 'C' or Schedule 'H' drugs.RS so that they were to be dispensed by the chemists on a prescription of a Medical Practitioner only.
RatioOfTheDecision	This judgment is, therefore, distinguishable from the present case and is of no help to the case of the plaintiff (6) None of the other judgments as referred to by Mr. <NAME> relates to the case of medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations and they deal with general classes of consumer goods and they are not quite relevant for the purpose of the present case as the present case relates to the trade mark in relation to pharmaceutical preparations.
RulingByPresentCourt	(7) In conclusion I find no merit in the application and the same is dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	SUITNo.
RulingByPresentCourt	2152/85 THE parties are directed to appear before the Deputy Registrar on March 18, 1986 for admission I denial of documents and the suit be listed before the <ORG> on May 26, 1986 for framing of issues.
