Fact	PETITIONER: STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS.
Fact	Vs. RESPONDENT: <NAME> ETC.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT14/04/1976 BENCH: SINGH, JASWANT BENCH: SINGH, <NAME>, A.N.
Fact	(CJ) BEG, M. HAMEEDULLAH CITATION: 1976 AIR 2002 1976 SCR 33 1976 SCC (3) 495 CITATOR INFO : RF 1978 SC 515 (7) ACT: Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules 1963-Enquiry under R. 4 whether compliance with principles of natural justice required.
Fact	HEADNOTE: The appellant initiated proceedings under the Land Acquisition Act , 1894, for acquiring the lands of the respondents for <ORG>, in order to establish an industrial estate for small scale industries.
Fact	A notification was issued under s. 4 of the Act after following the provisions of Part VII of the Act, and in due course the final notification under s. 6 of the Act was issued.
Fact	The respondents challenged both the notifications before <ORG>, under Art.
Fact	226 of the Constitution on the ground that at the enquiry held by the Special Land Acquisition Officer, <NAME> da, under R. 4 of the Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules 1963, they had not been heard in accordance with the principles of natural justice.
Fact	<ORG> allowed the writ petitions.
Fact	The question for decision before this <ORG> was whether the enquiry under Rule 4 requires compliance with the rules of natural justice.
Fact	Dismissing the appeals, the <ORG>, ^ HELD: In conducting the enquiry, the Collector has, in the interest of fair play, to observe the principles of natural justice by affording the persons interested in the land a reasonable opportunity of being heard and of adducing material before the Collector to refute the allegations of the company.
Fact	[37 <CITATION_830852> :   <CITATION_1629479> .
Fact	1 SCR 317 and <CITATION_639803> .
Fact	1 SCR 457 referred to.
Fact	& CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeals Nos.
Fact	967 to 969 of 1971.
Fact	Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated April 17/18, 1970 of the Gujarat High <ORG> in Special Civil Applications Nos.
Fact	116,, 1621 and 1622 of 1967.
Fact	<NAME>, M. C .
Fact	<NAME>, <NAME> for the Appellants in all the appeals.
Fact	1.
Fact	<NAME> for Respondents Rr.
Fact	1 and 2 in 967 and R 1 in CAs.
Fact	968-969.
Fact	<NAME> and Miss <NAME> for Respondent 3 in 967, R. 2 in 968, 969.
Fact	34  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME> three appeals Nos.
Fact	967 to 969 of 1971 by special leave which are directed against the common judgment of <ORG> dated April 17/18, 1970 in Special Civil Application Nos.
Fact	116 of 1967, 1621 of 1967 and 1622 of 1967 arise thus:  Proceedings under the Land Acquisition Act , 1894, (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') for acquisition of certain lands in villages Sayajipuri, Bapow and Savad, District Baroda, Taluka Baroda were initiated by <ORG> at the instance of <ORG> registered under the Gujarat Co-operative Societies Act 1961 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Company') for the purpose of establishing an industrial estate for small scale indust ries.
Fact	The acquisition being for the <ORG> a notification was issued under section 4 of the Act on July 2, 1964 after following the provisions of Part VII of the Act.
Fact	An agreement under section 41 of the Act between <ORG> and the <ORG> was entered into on April 2, 1965 and was published on October 15, 1966.
Fact	The final notification under section 6 of the Act was issued on October 18, 1966.
Fact	The owners of the aforesaid lands who are contesting respondents herein challenged the aforesaid notifications issued under section 4 and 6 of the Act by filing petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution of India inter alia on the ground that the provisions of the Rule 4 of the Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules, 1963 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Rules') made by <ORG> in exercise of the powers conferred under section 55 of the Act, which by virtue of Rule 1(2) of the Rules apply to acquisition of land for all companies under Part VII of the Act, have not been complied with particula rly as they had not been given a right to be heard in accordance with the principles of natural justice at the enquiry held by Special Land Acquisition Officer, Baroda, appellant No.
Fact	2 herein.
Fact	The plea raised by the owners of land found favour with <ORG> which allowed the petitions set aside the notification under section 6 of the Act, and issued a mandamus commanding appellant No.
RulingByLowerCourt	2 to complete the statutory enquiry under Rule 4 of the Rules in accordance with the principle of natural justice.
Fact	The short but important question which we are called upon to decide in these appeals is whether the enquiry under Rule 4 of the Rules requires compliance with the rules of natural justice.
Fact	As observed by this <ORG> in <CITATION_1629479> .
Fact	(1) and reiterated in <CITATION_639803> .
RatioOfTheDecision	(2) rules of natural justice are not rules embodied always expressly in a statute or in rules framed thereunder.
RatioOfTheDecision	They may be implied from the nature of the duty to be performed under a statute.
RatioOfTheDecision	What particular rule of natural justice  should be implied and what its content should be for a given case must depend to a great extent on the facts and circumstances of that case, the frame-work of the law under which the enquiry is held, and the constitution and nature of duties of the <ORG> or the body of persons appointed for that purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	Let us, therefore, advert to the provisions of Rule 4 of the Rules which requires the appropriate <ORG> to be satisfied with regard to certain matters before initiating acquisition proceedings.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rule is in these terms :-  "4.
Statute	Appropriate <ORG> to be satisfied with regard to certain matters before initiating acquisition proceedings.-  (1) Whenever a <ORG> makes an application to the appropriate <ORG> for acquisition of any land, that <ORG> shall direct the Collector to submit a report to it on the following matters, namely:-  (i) that the <ORG> has made its best endeavour to find out lands in the locality suitable for the purpose of the acquisition;  (ii) that the <ORG> has made  all reasonable efforts to get such lands by negotiation with the persons interested therein on payment of reasonable price and such efforts have failed;  (iii)that the land proposed to be acquired is suitable for the purpose;  (iv) that the area of land proposed to be acquired is not excessive;  (v) that the Company is in a position to utilise the land expeditously; and  (vi) where the land proposed to be acquired is good agricultural land, that no alternative suitable site can be found so as to avoid acquisition of that land.
Statute	(2) The Collector shall, after giving the company a reasonable opportunity to make any representation in this behalf, hold an enquiry into the matters referred to in sub-rule (1) and while holding such enquiry he shall,-  (i) in any case where the land proposed to be acquired is agricultural land, consult the Senior Agricultural Officer of the district whether or not such land is good agricultural land;  36  (ii) determine, having regard to the provisions of sections 23 and 24 of the  Act, the approximate amount of compensation likely to be payable in respect of the land which, in the opinion of the Collector, should be acquired for the <ORG>; and  (ii) ascertain whether the <ORG> offered a reasonable price (not being less than the compensation so determined), to the persons interested in the land proposed to be acquired.
Statute	Explanation.-For the purpose of this rule "good agricultural land" means any land which, considering the level of agricultural production and the crop pattern of the area in which it is situated, is of average or above average productivity and includes a garden or grove land.
Statute	(3) As soon as may be after holding the enquiry under sub-rule (2), the Collector shall submit a report to the appropriate <ORG> and a copy of the same shall be forward by that <ORG> to the <ORG>.
Statute	(4) No declaration shall be made by the appropriate <ORG> under section 6 of the Act unless-  (i) the appropriate <ORG> has consulted the <ORG> and has considered the repor t submitted under this rule and the report, if any, submitted under section 5A of the Act; and  (ii) the agreement under section 41 of the Act has been executed by the <ORG>".
Statute	To sum up, sub-rule (1) of the above quoted rule requires the appropriate Government to which an application is made by a <ORG> for acquisition of land to direct the Collector to submit a report on six matters set out therein.
Statute	Sub-rule (2) of the said rule re-emphasizes what is contained in sub-rule (1) by making it obligatory for the Collector to hold an enquiry into six matters referred to in sub-rule (1).
Statute	It also makes it obligatory for the Collector while holding the enquiry (1) to consult the Senior Agricultural Officer of the District in case the land is agricultural land, (2) to determine the approximate amount of compensation likely to be payable in respect of the land in question keeping in view the provisions of sections 23 and 24 of the Act and (3) to ascertain whether the <ORG> offered a reasonable price (which is no t less than the compensation so determined) to the persons interested in the land which is proposed to be acquired.
RatioOfTheDecision	A conjoint reading of sub-rules (1) and (2) leaves no room for doubt that the enquiry by the Collector, which is meant inter alia to find out whether all reasonable efforts have been made by the <ORG> to get the land by negotiation on payment of reasonable price and such efforts have not fructified and to determine the approximate amount of compensation likely to be payable in respect of the land keeping in view the provisions of sections 23 and 24 of the Act, is of vital importance to the persons interested in the land.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sub-rule (3) of the rule requires the Collector to submit his report to the concerned <ORG> which in turn is required before making a declaration under section 6 of the Act to consider that report as well as the report, if any, submitted by it under section 5A of the Act after ascertaining the view of the <ORG> constituted under Rule 3 of the Rules in regard to the  Collector's report under Rule 4 of the Rules.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although the above mentioned rule is silent regarding the mode and method of the enquiry to be held by the Collector and the report of the Collector is of a recommendatory character, yet regard being had to the legislative history and purpose of the rule, and the mischief sought to be prevented, we have no hesitation in holding that, in conducting the enquiry, the Collector has, in the interest of fair play, to observe the principles of natural justice by affording the persons interested in the land a reasonable opportunity of being heard and of adducing material before the Collector to refute the allegations of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The concept of natural justice which as evident from the observations made in <NAME> case (supra), has undergone a great deal of change in recent years.
RatioOfTheDecision	The dividing line between an administrative and quasi-judicial function is often blurred.
Precedent	Our view is reinforced by the following illuminating observations made by the learned Chief  Justice in <CITATION_830852> .
RatioOfTheDecision	(1) "The contention of the <ORG> that the enquiry under rule 4 is administrative and that the owner of the land is not entitled to be given an opportunity to be heard at the enquiry cannot be accepted for these reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	The enquiry under rule 4 shows that the Collector is to submit a report among other matters that the <ORG> has made all reasonable efforts to get such lands by negotiation with the persons interested therein on payment of reasonable price and such efforts have failed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The persons interested therein are the owners of the land which is proposed to be acquired.
RatioOfTheDecision	The company at such an enquiry has to show that the company made negotiations with the owners of the land.
RatioOfTheDecision	The owners of the land are, therefore, entitled to be heard at such an enquiry for the purpose of proving or disproving the reasonable efforts of the company to get such land by negotiation.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contention on behalf of the <ORG> that the owners of the land will get an opportunity when an enquiry is mad e under section 5-A of the Act is equally unsound.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 17 of the Act provides that the appropriate Government may direct that the provisions of section 5-A shall not apply, and if it does so direct a declaration may be made under section 6 at any time after the publication of the notification under section 4 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the enquiry under section 5A may not be held."
RulingByPresentCourt	For the foregoing reasons, the question is answered in the affirmative and the appeals are dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	The parties are left to bear and pay their own costs in these appeals.
RulingByPresentCourt	M.R.
RulingByPresentCourt	Appeals dismissed.
