Fact	JUDGMENT  1.
Argument	Plaintiff sues for partition and delivery to him of one-third of the properties annexed to the plaint which are claimed to be the properties of the joint family consisting of himself and of the first and second defendants.
Argument	He also prays for the settlement of a scheme for the management of the charitable and religious endowments mentioned in Part III of the second schedule.
Argument	2.
Argument	The defence of the first defendant is that the properties are impartible.
Argument	His contention is that he and his ancestors were the hereditary gurus of the family of the <NAME> of Tanjore and that these properties appertain to the office of guru as such.
Argument	He further contends that his ancestor who was brought to Tanjore as his guru by the then <NAME> was also the head of a mutt and that these properties appertain to that mutt.
Argument	3.
Argument	The Subordinate Judge has found that the parties formed an ordinary Hindu family and has decreed partition.
Argument	This is an appeal against that decision,  4.
Argument	Most of the properties specified in Parts I a nd II of schedule II were given by the then <NAME> of Tanjore to one <NAME> stated to be a disciple of the Meruswamy Mutt in Mannargudi.
Fact	He had an only son <NAME> who left an adopted, son <NAME> who died in 1854.
Fact	His adopted son, <NAME>, died in April 1886 leaving three sons, the plaintiff and the first and second defendants and two daughters.
Fact	From the date of the gift there was no occasion for partition.
Fact	That gift seems to have been made by the <NAME> to <NAME>, as the latter was accepted by the <NAME> as his guru.
Fact	Till the extinction of the <NAME>, the ancestors of the first defendant continued to be the gurus and after the resumption of the <NAME>, by the British Government, the first defendant's <NAME> and after him the first defendant, continued to be recognized as the gurus of the Royal Family.
Argument	It is the case of the first defendant, appellant, that the gift was made to his ancestor on account of his being the <NAME>'s guru and those properties together w ith the rest which form an accretion to that estate are attached to that office of Raja Guru, cannot be separated therefrom and are therefore impartible.
Argument	5.
Fact	<NAME>, it is said, also established a mutt, and it is contended these properties appertain to that mutt.
Fact	Mutts are usually associations of Sanyasis, or celibates, devoted to divine worship, who give upadesam or instruction to deserving candidates.
Fact	There are also matams of which the members are allowed to marry.
Fact	The house in which they live is also called mutt.
Fact	The office of the Raja guru and the headship of the mutt are attained at the same time.
Fact	6.
Fact	The first defendant's predecessors were all married men when they became Raja gurus.
Fact	His <NAME> is not alleged to have become a <NAME>.
Fact	His grandfather and great grandfather became sanyasis in their last momenta.
Fact	The disciples do not live with the first defendant.
Fact	There is no doubt the residence of the first defendant is generally called a mutt.
Fact	It is however also called ' <NAME>' by some and ' ho use' by others.
Fact	7.
Fact	In support of his contention that there is an office of guru of <NAME> family the appellant relies upon the ceremonies which were performed at the time when, on the death of one guru, the eldest son succeeded to the office.
Fact	Evidence has been given in this case of the ceremonies that were performed at the time of the first defendant's installation.
Fact	It appears that a few days before his <NAME>'s death in the presence of the heads of certain other mutts, the first defendant was taught Rama Mantram by his <NAME> and a few days after his death he was installed as the head of the mutt.
Fact	Various persons were invited to attend the said ceremony.
Fact	The first defendant was made to wear a dress made of kashaya cloth which the head of the mutt should wear.
Fact	<NAME> was made to sit on what is called an 'adhistanapalaki' which consists of two wooden planks--one to sit on and the other to lean against.
Fact	The head of <NAME>, who is said to be the guru hereditarily of the first defendant's mut t placed the first defendant on that seat.
Fact	Then his disciples made obeisance to him and he gave upadesam to one or two of the disciples.
Fact	The representative of the Maharaja's family then placed him on what is called the ' Gadi ' which is a raised seat with a mattress on it.
Fact	He had the Dhandam (stick) given him.
Fact	After that he started on a procession from his house, went to the Hanuman temple and as far as the Raja's palace and after receiving alms from the palace he came back,  8.
Fact	It is said that no other person is entitled to sit on the <NAME> and the right to sit on the <NAME> is supposed to have been conferred upon the first defendant and his predecessors as they were the gurus of the royal family of Tanjore.
Argument	9.
Argument	It is also alleged and proved that a flag is raised on the new year's day on the mutt and that the anniversaries of all the predecessors of the firsts defendant are also performed, The sandals used by the predecessors of the first defendant are worshipped on the respective anniversary days.
Argument	10.
Argument	The fir st defendant and his predecessors, in addition to their ordinary names, have also got spiritual name?, the first defendant being called <NAME>, his <NAME> was called <NAME>, his grandfather <NAME>, and his grandfather's <NAME> <NAME>, and his <NAME>, the first guru, <NAME>.
Argument	11.
Argument	The first defendant's predecessors except his <NAME> who were gurus had also samadhis.
RulingByLowerCourt	These facts are no doubt clearly proved and they show, undoubtedly, that the family is one of great importance in that locality.
RulingByLowerCourt	They have been called Raja gurus no doubt from their having been the gurus of the Maharajas of Tanjore.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is also clear from the evidence that the first defendant and his predecessors were also called Madhathipathies,  12.
RulingByLowerCourt	The question for our consideration is, however, whether there are properties attached to this office or belong to the mutt as such and for that reason whether they are impartible.
RulingByLowerCourt	13.
RulingByLowerCourt	In order to decide this question we have to consider the document ary evidence adduced.
RulingByLowerCourt	Exhibit 0 series are apparently the <ORG>s by which the <NAME>s of Tanjore granted the properties in part II of the second schedule as well as the properties shown in part III of the said schedule, which are admittedly devoted to charitable purposes, to the predecessor in title of the first defendant.
RulingByLowerCourt	The earliest of them exhibit 03 is of 1739, and the latest of them is about 1760.
RulingByLowerCourt	Exhibit C3 purports to be a grant made by the <NAME> of Tanjore to <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is not stated to have been given to him for the maintenance of the office, nor was it given to him as the head of the mutt.
RulingByLowerCourt	In fact he is not referred to in these documents as the <NAME>'s guru or even as the head of the mutt.
Argument	His spiritual name also is not given.
Argument	The <ORG> itself is in the form of an order issued to his officials by the <NAME> reciting that these grants have been made to Sri <NAME> with the exception of exhibit C3 where he is styled <NAME>, There is also a direction in the <ORG> whi ch is translated thus: "Let it be conducted from sons to grandsons in succession.
Argument	Let not the objection of a renewed document itself be taken every year."
Argument	14.
Argument	The appellants' pleader relies upon these words to show that this '<ORG>' cannot be treated as evidence of an absolute personal gift since the obligation is laid upon the revenue officials to see that the injunctions of the Maharaja are carried out and it could therefore only refer to the performance of the duties by <NAME> of his office or as the head of the mutt.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to accept this construction in the absence of anything in the body of the document itself to show that it appertained to the office, or the mutt, It may probably be intended to show that any further <ORG> was unnecessary every year or in case of succession on the grantee's death.
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the case of the properties which were granted for charitable and religious p reference the purpose is recited in the <ORG> itself (exhibit 02) and there is a specific direction "let t he charity be conducted perpetually."
RatioOfTheDecision	On a comparison of these two recitals it appears to us to be clear that these were only directions to the officials by the Maharaja to see that in the case of the charities they were properly performed and in the case of the other properties the descendants of the grantee enjoyed them.
Fact	After these ' sanads' by <NAME>, the only other sanad that we have is exhibit II which purports to be a grant of a village by the then Governor of the Madras Presidency in exchange for some salt pan which the Government seems to have taken up for public purpose.
Fact	This was in 1808.
Precedent	In that, the grantee is described as the domestic priest to the Maharaja of Tanjore.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	Of course the property newly granted possesses the same incidents as the one resumed.
Precedent	In the absence of any recital in exhibit II itself to show that these properties were either attached to the office or they were granted to the Madhathipathi, we must assume that they were held on the same tenure as the properties  of the grantee under the C series were held.
Precedent	17.
Fact	The Tanjore Raj was resumed by <ORG> about 1855.
Fact	The grandfather of the first defendant died in the year 1854; and in 1856 his widow presented a petition to <ORG> in which, after referring to her <NAME>'s death and his adoption, before his death, of the first defendant's <NAME>, she stated that his installation ceremony including procession was not performed either by her <NAME> or the <NAME> "to qualify him for my <NAME>'s adhinam and the" <NAME>'s priesthood," and she stated that until the abhishekam is performed he is ineligible for the priesthood.
Argument	And she also stated that in collusion with the subordinate revenue officials, the first defendant's <NAME> without her own consent and without the permission of <NAME> had performed the abhishekam and the procession and taken possession of the properties.
Argument	She alleged that till then the property was in her possession.
Argument	But <ORG> referred her to the  officiating Residant.
Argument	There are statements made by the widow about her <NAME>'s atheenam and the necessity of an installation which support the first defendant.
Argument	But her claim to hold the properties is against him.
Argument	The properties, however, seem to have been placed under attachment, a report called for, and the matter in dispute appears to have been finally disposed of by an order which is exhibit Z in the case.
Argument	That order was mainly based upon a report by the then Commissioner of Tanjore.
Argument	The Commissioner referred to the death of the <NAME> in 1854.
Argument	He also said that the adoption was perfectly legal and conferred on the adoptee the first defendant's <NAME> all the rights of the deceased <NAME>.
Argument	With reference to the properties which were called ' <NAME> inams ' he was of opinion that the inams would necessarily fall into the hands of the adopted son.
Argument	He further pointed out that it was the practice of the Tanjore Rajahs themselves to appoint as managers of the estates persona for whom the Rajahs entertained feel ings of regard; and that in the case of this family the agent of the <NAME>'s estates had, for some time after 1826, been also looking after the affairs of the inams but that the inam proceeds never reached the servants of <NAME> as such and that "the revenue derived from the inams as well as the inams themselves were in nowise interfered with by the <NAME> and the <NAME> was quite free to hoard or dissipate their produce as to him seemed best.''
Precedent	No accounts were rendered to the <NAME> himself or to any one about his durbar or person."
Precedent	18.
Precedent	If the <NAME> was interested in those properties, it is scarcely likely that the <NAME>'s officials would have refrained from any such interference, more especially when we take into consideration the fact that the native <NAME>s in ancient days actively interfered in the management of religious institutions.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	Then, in finally passing orders, the Government observed that the lands could in no way be treated as service lands or endowments attached to the priestly office conferr ed for the performance of duty but that they were simple personal grants unconditionally bestowed from favour and affection, and the properties were accordingly made over be the first defendant's <NAME>.
Precedent	Those assigned for the maintenance of chattrams and charities were charged with the support of the institutions for which they were granted.
Precedent	This is undoubtedly strong evidence against the first defendant's contention.
Precedent	20.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the subsequent enquiry by the Inam Commissioner, that officer seems to have acted on the same view.
Fact	Exhibit L series are extracts from Inam Registers and exhibits D series are the inam title-deeds.
Fact	The title deeds of the lands which were granted for charitable purposes, those in part II of the plaint schedule, wore granted to the first defendant's <NAME>, as the manager for the time being and his successors so long as the charity and the religious institutions are properly maintained.
Fact	The lands which were treated by the <ORG> as personal inams were confirmed to the grantee and his  heirs as personal inams.
Fact	If these lands were attached to the office it was probably open to the <ORG> to have them resumed.
Fact	If they were properties belonging to the mutt, they would certainly have been so treated, The conduct of the first defendant's <NAME> after obtaining possession of the properties also is only consistent with the same view as was adopted by the <ORG> and the Inam Commissioner.
Fact	In 1867 he sold certain properties for a sum!
Fact	of Rs.
Fact	5,000.
Fact	In 1875 he made a gift of certain properties to his foster daughter and in 1877 he sold certain other items of property for Rs.
Fact	14,000.
Fact	In 1878 he mortgaged certain other properties for a large sum of Rs, 60,000.
Fact	In all these, the properties were treated by him as his own; and a security bond (exhibit A-3) executed by him contemplates the possibility of a suit for partition.
Fact	But there is no suggestion anywhere of the properties appertaining to either the office or to the mutt,  21.
Fact	When he appointed an agent in 1878 he specified certain properties  as <NAME> properties and the other properties he treated as his own, The first defendant's <NAME> died in the year 188S, when he (the first defendant) was a minor.
Fact	<ORG> seems to have taken possession of the property, and managed it till 1889.
Fact	They managed the property not only on behalf of the first defendant but on behalf of the first defendant and his brothers (see exhibits T, T1, and 02): and they never attempted to dispute the validity of any of the alienations made by the first defendant's <NAME> on the ground that he had only a life interest in the property, and that they appertained to the office of <NAME> or that they belonged to the mutt.
Fact	22.
Fact	The first defendant seems to have succeeded to the management in 1890.
Fact	He also recognised his <NAME>'s alienations and undertook (see exhibit A9) to discharge the balance of what remained due of the debt of Rs, 60,000 under exhibit A4.
Fact	On that occasion (exhibit A9) he treated the property as family property, neither the office nor the mutt being  referred to.
Fact	Suits were brought not against the first defendant solely but against the first defendant and.
Fact	his brothers with reference to these properties by third parties and in the written statement filed by the first defendant and his brothers and in the Razi that followed (see exhibits O and 03) the properties were treated as joint family properties and then a decree for specific performance was passed against the first defendant and also against his brothers--not against him alone (see exhibit 04).
Fact	Similarly he filed suits with his brothers as co-plaintiffs.
Fact	On one occasion he seems to have protested on the ground that he alone is entitled to sue and that it was unnecessary to make others parties to the suit as he was in exclusive possession of the estate on that occasion.
Fact	The Sub-Collected out that <NAME> originally sued as the managing member of an undivided family and refused his prayer After the estate was delivered to the first defendant by <ORG> in 1890, pattas were granted by him in the  capacity of the manager of an undivided family (exhibit E).
Fact	23.
Fact	Mortgages were taken in the name not only of the first defendant but also of his brothers and the discharge was also signed by them all.
Fact	All this evidence can lead only to one conclusion and no document has been referred to before the date of this plaint in which the first defendant ever asserted his exclusive title as against the other members of the family.
Fact	24.
Fact	Assuming that the defendant's predecessors were holders of an office or heads of a mutt, they were also competent to acquire property for the benefit of themselves and descendants, including the female members of the family, and there is no presumption feat properties acquired by them were acquired for the office or mutt and not for their own use and benefit.
Fact	Other members of the family also may have acquired properties.
Fact	The properties referred to in exhibit LI4 included in this suit are alleged to have been acquired by a lady who is a member of this family.
Fact	It would require strong evi dence to show that these properties also were devoted to the office or mutt.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	There is nothing in the account books to show that those were treated as trust property.
Precedent	26.
Precedent	For these reasons the appellant's contention must be disallowed.
Precedent	27.
Argument	It was further contended that the management of the family properties devoted to charitable or religious uses descended according to the rule of primogeniture and that the plaintiff as a junior member is not entitled on partition to any share therein.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to accept this contention.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is now well settled that the right of management ordinarily descends to the natural heirs of the donee (<NAME> 439) and there is nothing to take the present case out of the rule.
Precedent	The authorities are collected by <NAME>, J. in <CITATION_577658> (1901) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Mad.
Precedent	192.
Precedent	The way in which the right of management is enjoyed is stated by the learned Judges as follows:  Except in the few oases in which the hereditary office may be descendible only to a single heir, the usa ge and custom generally is that along with oilier properties the office" (of manager) "is divided also in the sense that it is agreed to be held and the duties thereof discharged in rotation by each member or branch of the family, the duration of their turns being proportionate to their shares in the family property.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even in cases in which recourse is bad to a suit for the partition of the family property the <ORG> give effect to the usage and custom referred to by providing for the management of religious and charitable institution by different members or branches of the family in rotation on the above principles," There can be no doubt that these statements are correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	The case of <NAME> v. <NAME> Mitter 2 <NAME>'s 'Digest, 295 appears to show that the usage and custom were well established as far back as the year 1818, and it is now too late to question them.
Precedent	It will be observed that the enjoyment is stated to be divided between the different members or branches of the divided family,  and this is in accord ance with the recent decision of this Court in <CITATION_1492752> (1909) I.L.R.
Precedent	32 Mad, 167 that the managing member of an undivided family has the right to manage the family charities and that the other members of the family have no right to participate in the management so long as they continue undivided,  28.
RulingByPresentCourt	We therefore dismiss the appeal with costs.
