Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	The learned judge set out the statement of the case which ran as follows] - The assessee is a public limited company which owns tea.
Fact	Coffee and rubber plantations.
Fact	The assessee further manufactures plastic bags and polythene pipes that are used for spraying, etc.
Fact	The assessment year is 1966-67 for which the corresponding account year is the year ended March 31, 1966.
Fact	2.
Fact	The assessee claimed a deduction of an amount equal to 8% of the profits which were attributable in respect of an activity mentioned in The 5th Schedule to section 80E of the Income-tax Act.
Fact	3.
Fact	The profits attributable to the business of tea plantation amounted to Rs.
Fact	1,18,214.
Fact	On this amount the assessee claimed a deduction equal to 8%.
Fact	The relief claimed by the assessee worked out to Rs.
Fact	9,457.
Fact	As against this the Income-tax Officer, however, allowed only a sum of Rs.
Fact	5,608.
Fact	The relief as claimed by the assessee and the relief admissible as per Income-tax Officer is as unde :  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------  Item Appellant's Working ------------------------------------------------------------------- Rs.
Fact	Tea income liable to charge 1,18,214 Les : Relief under section 80E @ 8% 9,457 ---------- 1,08,757 Les : Loss in plastic business 48,105 ---------- Rs.
Fact	60,652 ---------- The Income-tax officer's working is as unde : ------------------------------------------------------------------- Item Income-tax Officer's Working ------------------------------------------------------------------- Rs.
Fact	Tea income liable to charge 1,18,214 Les : Loss in plastic business 48,105 ------------ Balance 70,109 Les : Relief under section 80E @ 8% 5,608 ------------ 64,501 ------------ In so arriving at the amount of relief the Income-tax Officer has deducted from the tea business profit of Rs.
Fact	1,18,214, the amount of Rs.
Fact	48,105 which was the loss incurred by the assessee in its plastic manufacturing business.
Fact	4.
Fact	The assessee felt aggrieved by the order of the Income-tax officer and took up the matter  in appeal before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
Argument	It was, inter alia, contended that under section 80E the assessee was entitled to a deduction at the rate of 8% from the profits and gains of an activity specified in the list in the 5th schedule.
Argument	The said deduction is not on the total income as determined, but is restricted to the profit which is attributable to the activity as specified in the 5th Schedule.
Argument	Reliance in this context was placed on the decision of <ORG> in the case of <NAME> case their Lordships were concerned with the dividend that was declared by a company which was entitled for a relief under section 15C on the shareholder's assessment.
Argument	He thus considered that the ration of the ratio of the decision was not applicable to the facts of the present case, in his view the nearest case in point was that of <ORG>, decided by <ORG> which appear at page 134 and which are as unde :  "Apparently, by enacting section 15C the  legislature has not prescribed for exclusion of a percentage from the head of profits of a new industrial undertaking in the computation of total income but has merely provided a partial exemption from payment of tax by newly established undertakings and, in the natural sequence of computation of tax, the amount of losses carried forward is liable to be deducted out of the income of the year of account and it is only after the question of tax is ascertained, exemption from payment to the prescribed extend will be given by the taxing authorities."
Argument	5.
Argument	The Appellate Assistant Commissioner considered that section 80E(1) specifically provided that before allowance was made under this section the total income should be computed as in accordance with the other provisions of the Act.
Argument	The total income, according to him, is computed by aggregating the profits and losses of different businesses carried on by an assessee.
Argument	Section 80E(1) , in his opinion, provides, as it does.
Argument	That every allowance has to be made first an d thereafter the allowances under section 80E(1) are taken into consideration.
Argument	In that view of the matter, he confirmed the order of the Income-tax Officer.
Argument	6.
Argument	The assessee came up in further appeal before <ORG>.
Argument	It was contended that deduction under section 80E at 8% of the profits and gains attributable to the manufacturing business should have been accorded.
Argument	The Income-tax Officer's action in deducting from the income attributable to an activity specified in the 5th Schedule of a loss from another activity not mentioned therein could not be justified on any grounds.
Argument	It was further contended that for the purpose of deduction under section 80E profit of the tea business as determined under the Income-tax Act should have been considered and not the net income after setting off the losses from another business.
Argument	7.
Argument	<ORG> examined the position.
Statute	In this context it referred to the provisions of section 80E which are in the following term :  "80E.
Statute	Deduction in respect of profits  and gains from specified industries in the case of certain companies.
Statute	- (1) In the case of a company to which this section applies, where the total income (as computed in accordance with the other provisions of this Act) includes any profits and gains attributable to the business of generation or distribution of electricity or any other from of power or of construction, manufacture or production of any one or more of the articles or things specified in the list in the Fifth Schedule, there shall be allowed a deduction from such profits and gains of an amount equal to eight per cent.
Statute	thereof, in computing the total income of the company."
Statute	In the opinion of <ORG> the opening words of this section provide for the computation of the assessee's total income in accordance with the various provisions of the Act.
Statute	The section further postulates that if such a total income includes any profits and gains attributable to the business of generation or distribution of electricity or any other form of powe r or of construction, manufacture or production of any one or more of the articles or things specified in the list in 5th Schedule, there shall be allowed a deduction from such profits and gains of an amount equal to 8% thereof in computing the total income of the company.
Statute	In the opinion of <ORG> the words "such profits" refer to the profits and gains attributable to the activities enumerated in the section itself and specified in the list provided in the 5th Schedule annexed to the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	A reading of the section clearly pointed to this interpretation.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision relied upon by the learned departmental representative was distinguished on the ground that it was in connection with the operation of a provision which did not create such a differentiation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 15C of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, and section 80E , in the opinion of <ORG>, had no similar connotation.
RatioOfTheDecision	It affirmed the fact that in computing the total income liable to tax various factors have to be taken i nto consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the ordinary course, in computing the total income the losses arising t an assessee from another business have to be given allowance for.
Argument	As, in this case, the section itself provided for relief in respect of activities enumerated in the section and the Schedule annexed thereto, the deduction of an allowance of 8% was provided from the profits of the very same activity.
Argument	It accordingly was of the opinion that deduction had to be made on such profits which were attributable to such an activity.
Argument	In that view of the matter, <ORG> held that the assessee was entitled to a relief of Rs.
Argument	9,457 and not Rs.
Argument	5,608 as accorded to it by the Income-tax Officer.
Argument	9.
Argument	From the aforesaid order of <ORG>, the following question of law arise :  "Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the <ORG> was justified in holding that for the purpose of allowing a deduction under section 80E of the Income-tax Act, 1961, the words 'such profits' occurring in that  section mean 'the profits and gains attributable to an activity as specified in the 5th Schedule' before deducting any loss incurred in any business activity ?"
Argument	10.
Statute	This is a reference under section 256(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, hereinafter called "the Act".
Statute	In relates to the assessment year 1966-67.
Argument	11.
Argument	The assessee is a limited company which owns tea, cuffed and rubber plantations from which it derived income during the relevant accounting year.
Argument	It also carries on the business of manufacture of plastic bags and polythene pipes used for spraying, etc.
Argument	The assessee derived an income of Rs.
Argument	1,18,214 from the tea plantation industry which is a "priority industry" entitled to the benefits of section 80E of the Act as it stood during the relevant assessment yea.
Precedent	The <ORG> incurred a loss of Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	48,105 from its business of manufacture of plastic bag's and polythene pipes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 80E of the Act as it stood at the relevant period allowed to an assessee a deduction of 8 per cent.
Fact	of the profits and gains  attributable to the priority industry, accordingly, the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs.
Fact	9,457 computing the deduction at 8 per cent.
Fact	on the aforesaid profit of Rs.
Fact	1,18,214.
Fact	According to the Income-tax officer, the loss of Rs.
Fact	48,105 has to be deducted for the profit or Rs.
Fact	1,18,214, and the deduction at 8 per cent.
Fact	has to be computed on the balance some of Rs.
Fact	70,109 only which works out at Rs.
Fact	5,608.
Fact	12.
RulingByLowerCourt	Appeal preferred by the assessee to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was unsuccessful.
RulingByLowerCourt	Then a second appeal was taken before <ORG>, Bangalore Bench, in I.T.A.
RulingByLowerCourt	No.
RulingByLowerCourt	15079 of 1967-68.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> agreed with the contention of the assessee and allowed the deduction of Rs.
RulingByLowerCourt	9,457 under section 80E of the Act.
Fact	Then the department obtained a reference to this court of the following question of la :  "Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the <ORG> was justified in holding that for the purpose of allowing a deduction under section 80E of Income-tax Act,  1961, the words 'such profits' occurring in that section mean 'the profits an gains attributable to activity as specified in the 5th Schedule' before deducting any loss incurred in any business activity ?"
Argument	13.
Argument	Sri <NAME>, learned counsel for the department, conceded, and in our opinion rightly, that the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1166760> ., on which strong reliance was placed by the department before the <ORG>, has no relevance to the facts of the present case.
Argument	The learned counsel on both sides submitted that there is no decision of any court on the question before us.
Fact	The answer to the question rests on the interpretation of subsection (1) of section 80E which was introduced by the Finance Act of 1966.
Fact	The said section has now been replaced by section 80-I .
Statute	Sub-section (1) of section 80E reads thu :  "80E.
Statute	Deduction in respect of profits an gains from specified industries in the case of certain companies.
Statute	- (1) In the case of a company to which this section applies , where the total income (as computed in accordance with the other provisions of their Act) includes any profits and gains attributable to the business of generation or distribution of electricity or any other from job power of the articles or things specified in the list in the Fifth Schedule, there shall be allowed a deduction form such profits and gains of an amount equal to eight percent.
Statute	thereof, in computing the total income of the company."
Statute	14.
Statute	Briefly state, the argument of <NAME> was that the effect of this provision it that the deduction under section 80E will be allowed from the profit from the specified priority industries as computed after allowing all the deduction admissible in computing the business income under sections 30 to 43 of the Act, and also after giving effect to the relevant provisions for set-off or carry-forward of loss contained in Chapter VI of the Act.
Statute	According to him, the first stage is the computation of the "total income" in accordance with the provisions o f the Act.
Statute	"Total income" has been defended in section 2(45) .
Statute	Section 4 which is the charging section leaves tax off the "total income" of the previous year of every person, section 5 states the scope of total income.
Statute	Section 14 classifies all income in under one head.
Statute	Section 28 states what all income falls under the head "profits any gains of business or profession".
Statute	Section 28 states what the income falls under the head "profits and gains of business or profession".
Statute	Section 29 accordance with the provisions contained in sections 30 to 43A .
Statute	Sections 70 to 72 provide for set-off of loss or carry-forward of loss.
Statute	Section 80E is found in Chapter VI-A under the head "other deductions" to be made in computing the "total income".
Statute	15.
Statute	<NAME> invited our attentions to paragraph 27 of Circular No.
Statute	4-P (LXXVI-61) of 1966 dated July 21, 1966, issued by <ORG>.
Statute	It read :  (27).
Statute	It will be observed that the deduction under section 80E referred to above is allowable in comput ing the profits and gains from the specified priority industries INCLUDED IN THE TOTAL INCOME 'AS COMPUTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE OTHER PROVISIONS' of the Income-tax Act .
Statute	The effect of this provision is that the deduction under section 80E will be allowed from the profits from the specified priority industries, as computed AFTER allowing all the deductions admissible in computing the business income under sections 30 to 43 of the Income-tax Act, and also after giving effect to the relevant provisions for set-off or carry-forward of loss, Contained in Chapter VI of that Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The business income of a company may consist of profits from the specified priority industriest as well as profits from other business activities, and the company may also have a loss in the same previous year under a head of income other than 'profits and gins of business or profession' or a business loss carried forward from earlier years and eligible for set-off against the business profits of that previous year.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a case, a ques tion may arise as to whether the loss of the relevant previous year under a head other than 'Profits and gains of business or profession' or the business loss carried forward from earlier years should be set off on a proportionate basis, both against the profits from the specified priority industries and the profits from other business activities.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the loss is set often a proportionate basis the quantum of the deduction available in respect of the former profits under section 80E of the Income-tax Act may be reduced to the disadvantage of the company.
Statute	The Income-tax Act does not, however, provide for the set-off of losses on a proportionate basis against income from different types or categories of business activities.
Statute	It will, therefor, be permissible for the company to claim that the loss should be set off, in the first instance, against its business profits other than profits from the specified priority industrious and as to the balance, if any, against its profits form the specified priority industries. "
Statute	16.
RulingByPresentCourt	We are unable to agree with the views of <ORG> that the effect of the provision is that the deduction under section 80E will be allowed from the profits from the specified priority industries, as computed after allowing all the deductions admissible in computing the business income under section 30 to 43 of the Act.
RulingByPresentCourt	If that was the intention the legislature, sub-section (1) of section 80E would have stated that the deduction shall be made after allowing all the deductions admissible in computing the business income index sections 30 to 43 of the Act.
RulingByPresentCourt	On the contrary, the sub-section states that the deduction shall be allowed from the profits and gains of the priority industry of an amount equal to 8 per cent.
RatioOfTheDecision	thereof in computing the total income of the company.
RatioOfTheDecision	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first pre-requisite condition in order to entitle the assessee to the benefits of section 80E is that income as computed in accordance with the provisions of the Act should include any profits and gains attr ibutable to the business of a priority industry.
RatioOfTheDecision	The quantum of deductions 8 per cent.
RatioOfTheDecision	of the profits and gains attributable to the business of a priority industry and the deduction has to be made in the process of computing the total income of the company.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the contention of <NAME> were to be accepted, in the illustration given in paragraph 27 of the circular referred to above, it would be open to the assessing authority to deduct the whole of the loss from the profits and gains of the business from the specified priority industry and the assessee cannot insist that the loss should be set off in the first instance against its business profits other than the profits from specified priority industries.
RatioOfTheDecision	19.
RatioOfTheDecision	The language of the provision is clear and the view taken by the <ORG>, in our opinion, is right.
RulingByPresentCourt	Accordingly, we answer the question referred in the affirmative and against the department.
RulingByPresentCourt	The assessee is entitled to the costs of this reference.
Precedent	20.
Precedent	Advocate's fee, Rs.
Precedent	250.
Precedent	21.
RulingByPresentCourt	Question answered in the affirmative.
