Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: STATE OF, MADRAS.
Fact	(with connected appeals) DATE OF JUDGMENT: 28/11/1956 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> DAS, <NAME> (CJ) BHAGWATI, <NAME>, <NAME>, S.K.
Fact	CITATION: 1957 AIR 297 1957 SCR 399 ACT: Madras Prohibition Act, 1937 (Mad.
Fact	X Of 1937), ss.
Fact	4(1), 4(2), 28, 29, 30, 3I, 32-Constitutional validity-Legislative competency Pith and substance of the legislation -The Government of India Act, 1935 (26 Geo.
Fact	5 & 1 Edw.
Fact	8 Ch.
Fact	2), s. 1O7(r), Sch.
Fact	7 List II, Entry 31-Constitution of India, Art.
Fact	I4.
Argument	HEADNOTE: The appellants were charged before the Presidency Magistrate for offences under the Madras Prohibition Act, 1937 and when the cases were taken up for trial they raised the contentions that SS.
Argument	4(2) and 28 to 32 of the Act are void under S. 107(I) of the Government of India Act, 1935, because they are repugnant to the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act , 1872, and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, and also be cause they are repugnant to Art.
RulingByLowerCourt	14 Of the Constitution of India.
Fact	On their application, the Magistrate referred the questions for the opinion of <ORG> under S. 432 ' of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
Fact	<ORG> having answered the questions against the appellants they preferred the present appeal under Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	136.
RatioOfTheDecision	Held, that the Madras Prohibition Act, 1937, is both in form and in substance a law relating to intoxicating liquors and that the presumptions in S. 4(2) and the provisions relating to search, seizure and arrest in SS.
RatioOfTheDecision	28 to 32 of the Act have no operation apart from offences created by the Act and are wholly ancillary to the exercise of the legislative power under Entry 31 in List II, Sch.
RatioOfTheDecision	7 of the Government of India Act, 1935.
RatioOfTheDecision	Accordingly the Act is in its entirety a law within the exclusive competence of <ORG> and the question of repugnancy under S. 107(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, does not arise.
RatioOfTheDecision	When a law is impugned on the ground that it is -ultra  vires the powers of the legislature which enacted it, what has to be ascertained is the true character of the legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	To do that, one must have regard to the enactment as a whole, to its objects and to the scope and effect of its provisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	If on such examination it is found that the legislation is in substance one on a matter assigned to the legislature, then it must be held to be valid in its entirety, even though it might incidentally trench on matters which are beyond its competence.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be quite an erroneous approach to the question to view such a statute not as an organic whole, but as a mere collection of sections, then disintegrate it into parts, examine under what heads of legislation those parts 52 400 would severally fall, and by that process determine what portions thereof are intra vires, and what are not.
Precedent	<NAME> v. <NAME>, (1940) F.C.R.
Precedent	188, <CITATION_806261> .
Argument	(1940) L.R.
Argument	74 I.A.
Argument	23 and <CITATION_1394213> (1949) F.C.R.
Argument	693, relied on.
Argument	Held further, that t he presumptions in s. 4(2) Of the Act do not off end the requirements as to equality before law or the equal protection of laws under Art.
Argument	14 , as they have to be raised against all persons against whom the facts mentioned therein are established.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even assuming that the law in America that a presumption of guilt would offend the requirement of the equal protection of laws unless there is a rational connection between the act proved and the ultimate fact presumed, could have application to the Indian Constitution, on a proper reading of the sections there is a reasonable relation between the presumption raised in S. 4(2) and the offences under s. 4(1) .
Fact	<NAME> v. <ORG>, 24I U.S. 79; 6o L. Ed.
Fact	899, <NAME> 1.
Fact	<NAME> v. People of the State of New York, 192 U.S. 585 48 L. Ed.
Fact	575 and <CITATION_1600887> , 258 U.S.
Fact	I 66 L. Ed.
Fact	431, referred to.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  CRIMINAL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos.
Fact	20 to 23 of 1955.
Fact	Appeals by special leave from the judgment and or der dated May 7, 1954, of <ORG> in Criminal Revision Cases Nos.
Fact	57 to 60 of 1954 and Case Referred Nos.
Fact	2 to 5 of 1954.
Fact	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for the appellants.
Fact	<NAME>, Advocate-General, Madras, <NAME> and <NAME>, for the respondent.
Fact	1956.
Fact	November 28.
Fact	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME> for decision in these appeals is whether ss.
Fact	4(2), 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 of the Madras Prohibition Act No.
Fact	X of 1937, hereinafter referred to as the Act, are unconstitutional and void.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be convenient first to set out the impugned statutory provisions.
Statute	Section 4 , omitting what is not material runs as follows;  401  4(1) " Whoever  (a) imports, exports, transports or possesses liquor or any intoxicating drug; or  (g) uses, keeps or has in his possession any materials, still, utensil, implement or apparatus whatsoever for the tapping of toddy or the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug; or  (j) consum es or buys liquor or any intoxicating drug ; or  (k) allows any of the acts aforesaid upon premises in his immediate possession, shall be punished-  Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to any act done under, and in accordance with, the provisions of this Act or the terms of any rule, notification, order, licence or permit issued thereunder.
Statute	(2) It shall be presumed until the contrary is shown-  (a) that a person accused of any offence under clauses (a) to (j) of sub-section (1) has committed such offence in respect of any liquor or intoxicating drug or any still, utensil, implement or apparatus whatsoever for the tapping of <ORG> or the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug, or any such materials as are ordinarily used in the tapping of <ORG> or the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug, for the possession of which he is unable to account satisfactorily ; and  (b) that a person accused of any offence under clause (k) of sub-section (1) has committed such offence i f an offence is proved to have been committed in premises in his immediate possession in respect of any liquor or intoxicating drug or any still, utensil, implement or apparatus whatsoever for the tapping of toddy or the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug, or any such materials as are ordinarily used in the tapping of toddy or the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug.
Statute	402  Section 28 provides that if any Collector, Prohibition Officer or Magistrate has reason to believe that an offence under s. 4(1) has been committed, he may issue a warrant for search.
Statute	Section 29 confers on certain officers power to search and seize articles even without a warrant, under certain circumstances.
Statute	Section 30 provides for certain classes of officers entering any place by day or night for inspection of stills, implements, liquor and the like.
Statute	Section 31 authorises the officers empowered to make entry under ss.
Statute	28 , 29 or 30, to break open any door or window and remove obstacles, if otherwise they could not m ake entry.
Statute	Section 32 confers authority on a Prohibition Officer or any officer of the <ORG> or <ORG> to arrest without warrant any person found committing any offence under s. 4(1) .
Fact	Now, the facts are that on November 18, 1953, the Prohibition Officer, Madras City, and the Deputy Commissioner of <ORG> made a search of premises No.
Fact	28, Thanikachala Chetty Street, Thyagarayanagar, Madras, and seized several bottles of foreign liquor and glasses containing whisky and soda.
Fact	The appellant, <NAME>, was residing at the premises, and the other three appellants, <CITATION_1346222> , were found drinking from the glass tumblers.
Fact	All the four were immediately put under arrest and in due course charge-sheets were laid against them for offences under the Act.
Fact	The three appellants other- than <NAME> were charged under ss.
Fact	4 (1) (a) and 4 (1) (j) for possession and consumption of liquor, and <NAME> was charged under s. 4 (1) (k) for allowing the above acts in pre mises in his immediate possession, a under s. 12 for abetment of the offences.
Fact	He was also charged under s. 4 (1) (a) on the allegation that though he was a permit-holder, he was in possession of more units than were allowed under the permit, and that by reason of the proviso to that section, he had committed an offence under s. 4 (1) (a).
Fact	Immediately after service of summons, the appellants filed an application unders.
Fact	432 of the Criminal Procedure Code , wherein they contended that ss.
Fact	4(2) and 28 to 32 of the Act were repugnant to the provisions of the Constitution, and were therefore void, and prayed that the above question might be referred for the decision of <ORG>.
Fact	The Third Presidency Magistrate, before whom the proceedings were pending, allowed the application, and referred to <ORG> as many as seven questions on the constitutionality of various sections of the Act.
Fact	This reference was heard by <NAME>, C.J., and <NAME>, J., who held, disagreeing with the appellants, that ss .
Fact	4(2) and 28 to 32 were valid,, and answered the reference against them.
Fact	Against this judgment, the appellants have preferred the present appeals under Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	136 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Two contentions have been urged in support of the appeals: (1) Section 4(2) and sa.
RatioOfTheDecision	28 to 32 of the Act are void under s. 107 of the Government of India Act, 1935, which was the Constitution Act in force when the Act in question was passed, because they are repugnant to the provisions of existing Indian laws with respect to the same matter, to wit, Indian Evidence Act I of 1872 and Criminal Procedure Code Act No.
RatioOfTheDecision	V of 1898, and (2) the impugned sections are repugnant to Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	14 of the Constitution, and have therefore become void under Art.
Precedent	13(1).
Precedent	(1) Taking the first contention, the point for' decision is whether the impugned provisions are hit by s. 107 of the Government of India Act, 1935.
Precedent	Subsection (1) of s. 107 , which is the relevant provision, runs as follows: "If any provision of a Provincial law is repugnant to any pro vision of a Federal law which the Federal legislature is competent to enact or to any provision of an existing Indian law with -respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent Legislative List, then, subject to the provisions of this section, the Federal law, whether passed before or after the Provincial law, or, as the case may be, the existing Indian law, shall prevail and the Provincial law shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void. "
RatioOfTheDecision	For this section to apply, two conditions must be fulfilled: (1) The provisions of the Provincial law and those of the Central legislation must both be in respect of a matter which is enumerated' in the Concurrent List, and (2) they must be repugnant to each other.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is only when both these requirements are satisfied that the provincial law will, to the extent of the repugnancy, become void.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first question, therefore, that has to be decided is, is the subject-matter of the impugned -legislation one that falls, within the Provincial List, in which case s.  107 would be inapplicable, or is it one which falls within the Concurrent List, in which case the further question, whether it is repugnant to the Central legislation will have to be decided ?
Statute	The Entries in the Lists which are material for the present discussion are the following:  List II-Provincial Legislative List.
Statute	2.
Statute	Jurisdiction and powers of all courts except <ORG>, with respect to any of the matters in this list; procedure in Rent and Revenue Courts.
Precedent	31.
Precedent	Intoxicating liquors and narcotic drugs, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors, opium and other narcotic drugs, but subject, as respects opium, to the provisions of List I and, as respects poisons and dangerous drugs, to the provisions of List 111.
Precedent	37.
Precedent	Offences against laws with respect of any of the matters in this list.
Precedent	List III-Concurrent Legislative List.
Precedent	2.
Precedent	Criminal Procedure, including all matters included in the Code of Criminal Procedure at the date of t he passing of this Act.
Precedent	5.
RatioOfTheDecision	Evidence and oaths; recognition of laws, public acts and records and judicial proceedings.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, it is not contested that the Madras Prohibition Act, as a whole, is a law in respect of intoxicating liquors, falling within Entry 31 of the Provincial list.
RatioOfTheDecision	The declared object of the enactment as stated in the preamble to it is "to bring about the prohibition...... of the production, manufacture, possession, export, import, transport, purchase, sale and assumption of intoxicating liquors............ And this is carried out in s. 4(1), which enacts prohibition in respect of the above matters, and imposes penalties for breach of the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	The other provisions of the Act may broadly be divided into those which are intended to effectuate s. 4(1) and those which regulate the grant of licences and permits.
RatioOfTheDecision	The legislation is thus on a topic which is reserved to the Provinces and would therefore fall outside a.
RatioOfTheDecision	107(1) of the Constitution Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	The argument of Mr. <NAME> for the ap pellant is that though the Act is within the competence of <ORG> in so far as it prohibits possession, sale, consumption, etc., of liquor under 3.
RatioOfTheDecision	4(1), the matters dealt with under s. 4(2) and ss.
RatioOfTheDecision	28 to 32 fall not within Entry 31 of List II but within Entries 5 and 2 respectively of List III, and to that extent, the legislation is on matters enumerated in the Concurrent List.
Argument	He contends that a.
Precedent	4(2) enacting as it does a presumption to be drawn by the court on certain facts being established, deals with what is purely a matter of evidence, and it is therefore not a law on intoxicating liquors but evidence.
Precedent	Likewise, he argues, the -provisions in ss.
Precedent	28 to 32 deal with matters pertaining to Criminal Procedure, such as warrants, seizure and arrest, and have no connection with intoxicating liquors.
Precedent	It is accordingly contended that ss.
Precedent	4(2) and 28 to 32 are legislation under Entries 5 and 2 of List III, and that their validity must be tested under s. 107(1) .
Precedent	The appellants are right in t heir contention that s. 4(2) of the Act enacts a rule of evidence but does it follow from this that it is a law on evidence, such as is contemplated by Entry 5 in the Concurrent List ?
Precedent	so also ss.
RatioOfTheDecision	28 to 32 undoubtedly deal with matters of Procedure in relation to crimes, but are they for that reason to be regarded as legislation on Criminal Procedure Code within Entry 2 of List III ?
RatioOfTheDecision	The basic assumption on which the argument of the appellants rests is that the heads of legislation set out in the several Lists are so precisely drawn as to be mutually exclusive.
RatioOfTheDecision	But then, it must be remembered that we are construing a federal Constitution, It is of the essence of such a Constitution that there should be a distribution of the legislative powers of the Federation between the <ORG> and the Provinces.
RatioOfTheDecision	The scheme Of distribution has varied with different Constitutions, but even when the Constitution enumerates elaborately the topics on which the <ORG> and the States could legislate, some overlapping of, the field s of legislation is inevitable.
Precedent	The British North America Act, 1867, which established a federal Constitution for Canada, enumerated in ss.
Precedent	91 and 92 the topic,-,, on which the Dominion and the Provinces could respectively legislate.
Precedent	Notwithstanding that the lists were framed so as to be fairly full and comprehensive, it was not long before it was found that the topics enumerated in the two sections overlapped, and <ORG> had time and again to pass on the constitutionality of laws made by the Dominion and Provincial legislatures.
Precedent	It was in this situation that <ORG> evolved the doctrine, that for deciding whether an impugned legislation was intra vires, regard must be had to its pith and substance.
Precedent	That is to say, if a statute is found in substance to relate to a topic with.
Precedent	in the competence of the legislature, it should be held to be intra vires, even though it might incidentally trench on topics not within its legislative competence The extent of the encroachment on matters beyond its  competence may be an element in determining whether the legislation is colourable, that is, whether in the guise of making a law on a matter within it competence, the legislature is, in truth, making a law on a subject beyond its competence.
Precedent	But where that is not the position, then the fact of encroachmen does not affect the vires of the law even as regards the area of encroachment.
Precedent	<ORG> v. <NAME>), The Attorney General of Ontario v. The Attorney-General for the Dominion of Canada(1), <CITATION_628416> for the Dominion(3 ), <ORG> v. Bryden(4) Attorney-General for' Canada v. Attorney-General for (1)  7 A. C. 96.
Precedent	(3)  A.C. 348.
Precedent	(2) [1894] A.C. 189.
Precedent	(4) [1899] A.C. 580.
Precedent	407  Ontario(,), Attorney-General for Alberta v. AttorneyGeneral for Canada(2 ), and <ORG> v. <ORG>).
Precedent	The principles laid down in the above decisions have been applied in deci ding questions as to the vires of statutes passed by the Indian legislatures under the Government of India Act, 1935.
Precedent	In Subrahmanyan Chettiar v. Muttuswami Goundan(4), the question was as to whether the Madras Agriculturalist' Relief Act IV of 1938, which was within the exclusive competence of <ORG> under Entries 20 and 21 in List 11 was ultra vires, in so far as it related to promissory notes executed by agriculturists by reason of the fact that under Entry 28, List I, "cheques, bills of exchange, promissory notes and other like instruments " were matters falling within the exclusive jurisdiction of the <ORG>.
Precedent	In holding that the legislation was intra vires, Sir <NAME> stated the reason in these terms:  " It must inevitably happen from time to time that legislation, though purporting to deal with a subject in one list, touches also on a subject in another list, and the different provisions of the enactment may be so closely intertwined that blind adherence to a strictly ve rbal interpretation would result in a large number of statutes being declared invalid because the <ORG> enacting them may appear to have legislated in a forbidden sphere.
Precedent	Hence the rule which has been evolved by <ORG> whereby the impugned statute is examined to ascertain its ' pith and substance' or its 'true nature and character', for the purpose of determining whether it is legislation in respect of matters in this list or in that............" This point arose directly for decision before <ORG> in <CITATION_806261> .
Precedent	(5).
Precedent	There, the question was whether the Bengal Money- Lenders Act, 1940, which (1)  A.C. 355.
Precedent	(4)  F.C.R.
Precedent	188.
Precedent	(2)  A.C. 117.
Precedent	(5) [1946-47] 74 I.A.
Precedent	23.
Precedent	(3)  A.C. 513.
Fact	53  408  limited the amount recoverable by a money-lender for principal and interest on his loans, was valid in so far as it related to promissory notes.
Fact	Money-lending is within the exclusive competence of the Provincial <ORG> under Item 27 of List II, but promissory note is a topic reser ved for the <ORG>, vide List 1, Item 28.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was held by <ORG> that the pith and substance of the impugned legislation being money lending, it was valid notwithstanding that it incidentally encroached on a field of legislation reserved for the <ORG> under Entry 28.
RatioOfTheDecision	After quoting with approval the observations of Sir <NAME> in <NAME> v. <NAME>, (supra) above quoted, Lord <NAME> observed: "Their Lordships agree that this passage correctly describes the grounds on which the rule is founded, and that it applies to Indian as well as to Dominion legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	"No doubt experience of past difficulties has made the provisions of the Indian Act more exact in some particulars, and the existence of the Concurrent List has made it easier to distinguish between those matters which are essential in determining to which list particular provision should be attributed and those which are merely incidental.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the overlapping of subjectmatter is not avoided by substituting th ree lists for two, or even by arranging for a hierarchy of jurisdictions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Subjects must still overlap, and where they do, the question must be asked what in pith and substance is the effect of the enactment of which complaint is made, and in what list is its true nature and character to be found.
Precedent	If these questions could not be asked, much beneficent legislation would be stifled at birth, and many of the subjects entrusted to Provincial legislation could never effectively be dealt with."
Precedent	Then, dealing with the question of the extent of the invasion by the Provincial legislation into the Federal fields, Lord <NAME> observed:  "No doubt it is an important matter, not, as their Lordships think, because the validity of an Act can be determined by discriminating between degrees of invasion, but for the purpose of determining what is the pith and substance of the impugned Act.
Precedent	Its provisions may advance so far into Federal territory as to show that its true nature is not concerned with ProVincial matters, but the  question is not, has it trespassed more or less, but is the trespass, whatever it be, such as to show that the pith and substance of the impugned Act is not money-lending but promissory notes or banking?
Precedent	Once that question is determined the Act falls on one or the other side of the line and can be seen as valid or invalid according to its true content."
Precedent	Then, there is the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1394213> (1).
Precedent	There, the question related to the validity of Ordinance No.
Precedent	IV of 1949 promulgated by the Governor of Bihar.
Precedent	It was attacked on the ground that as a legislation in terms of the Ordinance would have been void, under s. 107(1) of the Government of India Act, the Ordinance itself was void.
RatioOfTheDecision	The object of the Ordinance was the maintenance of public order, and under Entry I of List II, that is a topic within the exclusive competence of the Province.
RatioOfTheDecision	Then the Ordinance provided for preventive detention, imposition of collective fines, control of processions and public meetings, and there we re special provisions for arrest and trial for offences under the Act.
Argument	The contention was that though the sections of the Ordinance relating to maintenance of public order might be covered by Entry I in List II, the sections constituting the offences and providing for search and trial fell within Items I and 2 of the Concurrent List, and they were void as being repugnant to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code .
Argument	In rejecting this contention, <NAME> observed: " Thus all the provisions of the Ordinance relate to or are concerned primarily with the maintenance of public order in the Province of Bihar and provide for preventive detention and similar other measures in connection with the same.
Precedent	It is true that violation of the provisions of the Ordinance or of orders passed under it have been made criminal offences but offences against laws with respect to matters specified in List 11 (1)  F.C.R.
Precedent	693.
Precedent	410  would come within Item 37 of List II itself, and have been expressly excluded from Item I of t he Concurrent List.
Precedent	The ancillary matters laying down the procedure for trial of such offences and the conferring of jurisdiction on certain courts for that purpose would be covered completely by Item 2 of List II and it is not necessary for <ORG> to invoke the powers under Item 2 of the Concurrent List."
Precedent	He accordingly held that the entire legislation fell within Entries I and 2 of List II, and that no question of repugnancy under s. 107(1) arose.
RatioOfTheDecision	This reasoning furnishes a complete answer to the contention of the appellants.
RatioOfTheDecision	The position, then, might thus be summed up When a law is impugned-on the ground.
RatioOfTheDecision	that it is ultra vires the powers of the legislature which enacted it, what has to be ascertained is the true character of the legislation.
RatioOfTheDecision	To do that, one must have regard to the enactment as a whole, to its objects and to the scope and effect of its provisions.
Precedent	If on such examination it is found that the legislation is in substance one on a matter assigned to the legislature, then i t must be held to be valid in its entirety, even though it might inci- dentally trench on matters which are beyond its competence.
Precedent	It would be quite an erroneous approach to the question to view such a statute not as an organic whole, but as a mere collection of sections, then disintegrate it into parts, examine under what heads of legislation those parts would severally fall, and by that process determine what portions thereof are intra vires, and what are not.
Precedent	Now, the Madras Prohibition Act is, as already stated, both in form and in substance, a law relating to intoxicating liquors.
Precedent	The presumptions in s. 4(2) are not presumptions which are to be raised in the trial of all criminal cases, as are those enacted in the Evidence Act .
Precedent	They are to be raised only in the trial of offences under s. 4(1) of the Act.
Precedent	They are therefore purely ancillary to the exercise of the legis- lative power in respect of Entry 31 in List 11.
RatioOfTheDecision	So also, the provisions relating to search, seizure and arrest in sections 28 to 32 are  only with reference to offences committed or suspected to have been committed under the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	They have no Operation generally or to offences which fall outside the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Neither the presumptions in section 4(2) nor the provisions contained in sections 28 to 32 have any operation apart from offences created by the Act, and must, in our opinion, be held to be wholly ancillary to the legislation under Entry 31 in List II.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Madras Prohibition Act is thus in its entirety a law within the exclusive competence of <ORG>, and the question of repugnancy under s. 107(1) does not arise.
RatioOfTheDecision	(2) It is next contended that the presumptions raised in s. 4(2) of the Act, are repugnant to Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	14 of the Constitution, and that the section must accordingly be declared to have become void under Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	13(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to see how s. 4(2) offends the requirement as to equality before law or the equal protection of laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	The presumptions enacted therein have to be raised against all persons against whom the fact s mentioned therein are established.
RatioOfTheDecision	The argument of Mr. <NAME> is that the facts set out in s. 4(2) on which the presumption of guilt is raised have no reasonable relation to the offences themselves, that for example, possession of liquor can be no evidence of possession of materials or apparatus for manufacture of liquor under s. 4(1)(g) , nor possession of materials, apparatus for manufacture of liquor, evidence of possession or consumption of liquor under s. 4(1) (a) and  (j), and that therefore the impugned provision must be struck down as denying equal protection.
Precedent	He relied in support of this contention on the following observations of <NAME> in <NAME> v. <ORG> (1):  " As to the presumptions, of course the legislatures may go a good way in raising one or in changing the burden of proof, but there are limits.
Precedent	It is essential that there shall be some rational connection between the fact proved and the ultimate fact presumed, and that the inference of on e fact from proof of another shall not be so unreasonable as to be a purely arbitrary mandate.
Precedent	<ORG> v.
Precedent	Turnipseed(2)."
Precedent	(1) 241 U.S. 79 at 86-87 ; 60 L. Ed.
Precedent	899, 904.
Precedent	(2) 219 U.S. 35, 43; 55 L. Ed.
Precedent	78, 80.
Precedent	412  The law on this subject is thus stated by <NAME> on Constitutional Law, 1939 Edition, at page 835: " The power of a legislature to prescribe rules of evidence is universally recognised, but it is equally well established that due process limits it in this matter.
Precedent	It may establish rebuttable presumptions only if there is a rational connection between what is proved and what is permitted to be inferred therefrom."
Precedent	The law would thus appear to be based on the due ,process clause, and it is extremely doubtful whether it can have application under our Constitution.
Precedent	But a reference to American authorities clearly shows that the presumptions of the kind enacted in s. 4 (2) have been upheld as reasonable and not hit by the due process or equal protection clause.
Precedent	In <NAME> v.  People of the State of New York (1), a law of New York had made it an (offence to be knowingly in possession of gambling instruments, and enacted further that possession of such instruments was presumptive evidence of knowledge.
Precedent	It is thus in terms similar to s. 4(1)(a) of the Act, which makes it an offence to be in possession of liquor, and to s. 4(2) which raises a rebuttable presumption of guilt under s. 4(1)(a) .
Precedent	In rejecting the contention that the presumption was a violation of the due process clause, the <ORG> observed:  " We fail to perceive any force in this argument.
Precedent	The policy slips are property of an unusual character, and not likely, particularly in large quantities, to be found in the possession of innocent parties.
Precedent	Like other gambling paraphernalia, their possession indicates their use or intended use, and may well raise some inference against their possessor in the absence of explanation.
Precedent	Such is the effect of this statute.
Precedent	Innocent persons would have no trouble in explaining the possession o f these tickets, and in any event the possession is only prima facie evidence, and the party is permitted to produce such testimony as will show the truth concerning the -possession of the slips.
Precedent	Furthermore, it is within the established power of the state to prescribe the evidence which is to be received in the courts of its own government."
Precedent	(1) 192 U.S. 585; 48 L. Ed.
Precedent	575.
Precedent	413  <CITATION_1600887> (1), the question arose with reference to a statute of the State of Georgia, which had made it an offence to knowingly permit persons to locate in premises apparatus for distilling and manufacturing prohibited liquors.
Precedent	It also enacted a presumption that when such apparatus was found in a place, the person in occupation thereof shall be presumed to have knowingly permitted the location of the apparatus.
Fact	The question was whether this presumption was repugnant to the due process clause.
Precedent	In holding that it was not, the <ORG> observed: " Distilling spirits is not an ordinary incident of a farm, and, in a prohibition s tate, has illicit character and purpose, and certainly is not so silent and obscure in use that one who rented a farm upon which it was or had been conducted would probably be ignorant of it.
Precedent	On the contrary, it may be presumed that one on such a farm, or one who occupies it, will know what there is upon it.
Precedent	It is not 'arbitrary for the state to act upon the presumption and erect it into evidence of knowledge;.
Precedent	not peremptory, of course, but subject to explanation, and affording the means of explanation."
Precedent	It is therefore clear that even on the application of the due process clause, the presumptions laid down in s. 4(2) cannot be struck down as unconstitutional.
Precedent	We should add that the construction which the appellants seek to put on s. 4 (2) that a person in possession of liquor could, under that section, be presumed to have committed an offence under s. 4(1) (g) or that a person who is in possession of materials, implement or apparatus could be presumed to have committed offences under s. 4 (1) (a) and (j) i s not correct.
Precedent	In our opinion, the matters mentioned in s. 4 (2) should be read distributively in relation to the offences mentioned in s. 4(1) .
Precedent	Possession of liquor, for example, is an offence under s. 4(1) (a).
Precedent	The presumption in s. 4(2) is that if it is found in the possession of a person, he should be presumed to have committed the offence under s. 4(1)(a) , unless he could give satisfactory explanation therefor, as for example, that it must have been foisted in the place without his knowledge.
Precedent	Likewise, it would be an (1) 258 U.S. 1 ; 66 L. Ed.
Precedent	431.
Precedent	414  offence under s. 4(1)(g) to be in possession of materials, still, implement or apparatus whatsoever for the tapping of toddy or the manufacture of liquor.
Precedent	Under s. 4(2)(a) , if a person is found to be in possession of materials or other things mentioned in the sub-section, there is a presumption that he has committed an offence under s. 4(1)(g) , but it is open to him to account satisfactorily therefor.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contention, therefore, that there is no reaso nable relation between the presumption and the offence is, in our opinion, based on a misreading of the section.
RulingByPresentCourt	Both the contentions urged on behalf of the appellants having failed, these appeals are dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	Appeals dismissed.
