Fact	PETITIONER: <ORG>.
Fact	Vs. RESPONDENT: THE STATE OF ORISSA AND OTHERS(And Connected Appeal) DATE OF JUDGMENT: 24/03/1961 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>: <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, M. CITATION: 1961 AIR 1438 1962 SCR (1) 549 CITATOR INFO : R 1962 SC1230 (5) D 1964 SC 922 (6) R 1964 SC 925 (25) D 1971 SC 946 (4,8) RF 1973 SC1461 (218) RF 1977 SC2279 (57) R 1985 SC 218 (17,18,19,20) D 1985 SC 901 (10) F 1987 SC 27 (4) ACT: Sales Tax-Tax imposed on sales outside the State-Refund, claimable by dealer or purchaser-Assessee's fundamental right-Reasonable restriction-Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), ss.
Fact	9B.
Fact	cl.
Fact	(3), 14-Orissa Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1958 (28 of 1958), s.14A-Constitution of India, Art, 19(1)(f).
Fact	HEADNOTE: The appellants who were registered as dealers under the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947, used to collect sales tax from the purchasers on all sales effected by them including sales to dealers in other states.
Fact	They were assessed to and paid  tax on their turnover which included sales outside the State of Orissa, but after the decision of this Court in <CITATION_424874> .,  S.C.R.
Fact	1069, they applied under s. 14 of the Act for refund of tax paid on the ground that sales outside the State were not taxable under cl.
Fact	(1)(a) of Art.
Fact	286 of the Constitution read with the Explanation.
Fact	Refund was refused by <ORG> and <ORG>.
Fact	In petitions moved by the appellants for writs of certiorari and Mandamus against the orders of <ORG> <ORG> ordered refund of tax paid for certain periods and refused it in regard to other periods.
Fact	The Orissa Sales Tax Act was, however, amended in 1958 with retrospective effect incorporating S. 14-A which provided that refund could be claimed only by the person from whom the dealer had realised the amount by way of sales-tax or otherwise.
Fact	550 Held, that under S. 14-A of the Orissa Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1958, refund of tax which the dealer was not liable to pay could 'be  claimed by the person from whom the dealer had actually realised it whether as sales tax or otherwise, and not by the dealer.
Fact	The legislature was competent to legislate for granting )IS refund of sales tax improperly collected; there, is no reason to exclude the power to declare that refund shall be claimable only by the person from whom the dealer has realised the amount as sales-tax or otherwise.
Fact	Under s. 9B, cl.
Fact	3 of the Act, if the amount realised by the assessee exceeded the amount payable as tax such amount must be deposited in the Government treasury, and the assessee having no beneficial interest in such amount the enactment that the amount shall be claimable only by the persons who paid the amounts to the dealers as sales-tax is a reasonable restriction imposed on the right of the assessee to obtain refund in the interest of the general public, and does not infringe the provisions of Art.
Fact	19(1)(f) of the Constitution.
Fact	If the assessees discharge their statutory obligation to deposit the amount collect ed by them as sale tax in the Government treasury they cannot be exposed to any claim for refund by the persons from whom the tax is collected, even though such persons were in the first instance not liable to pay the tax.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos.
Fact	273 to 277 of 1960.
Fact	Appeals by special leave granted by <ORG> by its order dated December 15, 1958, from the judgment and order dated February 4, 1957, of <ORG> in O. J. C. Nos.
Precedent	184 to 188 of 1955.
Precedent	<NAME>, Additional Solicitor-General of India and <NAME>, for appellants (In C. As.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	273 and 274 of 1960) and respondents (In C. As.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	275-277 of 1960).
Precedent	<NAME>, Solicitor-General of India, <NAME> and <NAME>, for respondents (In ('J.
Precedent	As.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	273 and 274 of 1960) and appellants (In C. As.
Precedent	Nos.
Precedent	275-277 of 1960).
Precedent	1961.
Precedent	March 24.
Precedent	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <ORG>, thereinafter called the assessees-are a public limited c ompany having their registered office at Brajrajnagar in the district of Sambalpur, Orissa State.
Fact	The assessees are manufacturers of paper and paper-boards and are registered as dealers under the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947-hereinafter referred to as the Act.
Fact	The assessees used to collect tax from the purchasers on all sales effected by them including sales to dealers in other States.
Fact	For the quarters ending March 31, 1950, June 30, 1950, September 30, 1950, December 31, 1950 and March 31, 195 1, the assessees paid Sales-tax which they were assessed by the Assistant Collector of Sales-tax to pay, on their turnover which included sales outside the State of Orissa.
RulingByLowerCourt	After this court delivered the judgment in <CITATION_424874> (1) the assessees applied for refund under s. 14 of the Act of tax paid in respect of goods despatched for consumption outside the State of Orissa contending that according to the law expounded by this court, the transactions of sales outside the State were not taxable under the Act because  of the prohibition imposed by Art.
Fact	286(1) (a) of the Constitution read with the Explanation.
Fact	Refund was refused by the Assistant Sales Tax Officer and the order was confirmed by <ORG>.
Fact	In the view of the taxing authorities, the orders of assessment in respect of the five periods had become final on the diverse dates on which they were made and were not liable to be reopened merely because the law applicable to the transactions was not correctly appreciated by the taxing authorities.
Fact	In petitions moved by the assessees for writs of certiorari and mandamus against the orders of <ORG>, <ORG> held that the only restriction upon the right of a dealer to apply for refund which "is found within the four corners of s. 14 of the Act" being the law of limitation prescribed by the proviso to than section, transactions in question not being liable to tax as they were interstate transactions, the tax collected must be refunded on applications submitted within the period pr escribed.
Fact	<ORG> then proceeded to hold that the recovery of tax paid for the first two (1)  S.C.R.
Fact	1069.
Fact	552  quarters was barred by limitation but not recovery of tax paid for the remaining three quarters, and issued id.
Argument	an order in the nature of mandamus directing refund of tax in respect of the last three quarters.
Argument	<ORG> and the assessees have appealed with special leave against the judgment of <ORG> by these five appeals.
Argument	Counsel for the State of Orissa contends that no refund could be granted because the orders of assessment had become final and s. 14 of the Act applied only to cases of refund in which a superior taxing authority in appeal or revision against the order of assessment directs or declares that the tax has not been properly collected, and it does not apply to cases of assessment which have become final, even if made on an erroneous view of the law.
Argument	The assessees support the view of <ORG> that s. 14 applies to all claims for refund and also contend th at the recovery of tax paid for the first two quarters was not barred by the law of limitation.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is unnecessary for the purposes of these appeals to consider the respective contentions of the parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our view the claim of the assesses must fail because of the retrospective amendment of the Act by <ORG>.
Statute	By s. 14A which was incorporated by the Orissa Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 28 of 1958, it was provided:  "Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act where any amount is either deposited by any person under sub-section (3) of s. 9B or paid as tax by a dealer and where such amount or any part thereof is not payable by such person or dealer, a refund of such amount or any part thereof can be claimed only by the person from whom such person or dealer has actually realised such amounts whether by way of sales-tax or otherwise and the period of limitation provided in the proviso to s. 14 shall apply to the aforesaid claims."
Argument	In terms, the section provides that refund of tax "id which the  dealer was not liable to pay can' only be claimed by the person from whom the dealer has actually realised it whether as sales-tax or otherwise.
Argument	553  The section therefore deprives the assessees of the common law right to claim refund of the amounts paid as tax under an error of law that it was recoverable by the taxing authority.
Argument	Counsel for the assessees does not dispute that by the amending provision, the right to obtain refund of tax is denied to him by the <ORG>.
Argument	He contends that the Act is beyond the competence of the State <ORG>, and in any event, it is void because it imposes an unreasonable restriction upon the assessees' fundamental right guaranteed under Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	19(1)(f) of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	By item 54 of List II of Schedule 7 to the Constitution, the State <ORG> was indisputably competent to legislate with respect to taxes on sale or purchase of papers and paper-boards.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power to legislate with respect to a tax comprehends the power to impose the tax, to prescribe machinery for  collecting the tax, to designate the officers by whom the liability may be enforced and to prescribe the authority, obligations and indemnity of those officers.
RatioOfTheDecision	The diverse heads of legislation in the Schedule- to the Constitution demarcate the periphery of <ORG>' competence and include all matters which are ancillary or subsidiary to the primary head.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> was therefore competent to exercise power in respect of the subsidiary or ancillary matter of granting refund of tax improperly or illegally collected, and the competence of the Legislature in this behalf is not canvassed by counsel for the assessees.
RatioOfTheDecision	If competence to legislate for granting refund of sales-tax improperly collected be granted, is there any reason to exclude the power to declare that refund shall be claimable only by the person from whom the dealer has actually realised the amounts by way of sales-tax or otherwise We see none.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question is one of <ORG> competence and there is no restriction eith er express or implied imposed upon the power of the <ORG> in that behalf.
RatioOfTheDecision	Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	19(1)(f) of the Constitution prescribes the right to freedom of citizens to acquire, hold and dispose of property; but the right is by cl.
RatioOfTheDecision	(5) subject to tile  operation of any law, existing or prospective, in so far as it imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of that right in the interest of the general public.
RatioOfTheDecision	Assuming that by enacting that refund of tax shall only be made to the purchasers from whom the tax has been collected by the dealers and not to the dealers who have paid the tax the fundamental right under Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	19(1)(f) is restricted, we are unable to hold that the restriction imposed by s. 14A of the Act is not in the interest of the general public.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> by s. 9B(1) of the Act authorised registered dealers to collect tax from the purchasers which they may have to pay on their turnover.
RatioOfTheDecision	The amounts collected by the assessees therefore primarily belonged not to the assesssees but to the purchaser s. On an erroneous assumption that tax was payable, tax was collected by the assessees and was paid over to the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under s. 9B, cl.
Statute	(3) of the Act as it stood at the material time, the amounts realised by any person as tax on sale of any goods shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of the Act, be deposited by him in a <ORG> treasury within such period as may be prescribed if the amount so realised exceeded the amount payable as tax in respect of that sale or if no tax is payable in respect thereof.
Argument	As the tax collected by the assessees was not exigible in respect of the sales from the purchasers, a statutory obligation arose to deposit it with the <ORG> and by paying that tax under the assessment, the assessees must be deemed to have complied with this requirement.
Argument	But the amount of tax remained under s. 9B of the Act with the <ORG> of Orissa as a deposit.
Argument	If with a view to prevent the assessees who had no beneficial interest in those amounts from making a profit out of  the tax collected, the <ORG> enacted that the amount so deposited shall be claimable only by the persons who had paid the amounts to the dealer and not by the dealer, it must be held that the restriction on the right of the assessees to obtain refund was lawfully circumscribed in the interest of the general public.
Argument	Counsel for the assessees contended that they stood in danger of being compelled at the instance of the purchasers to repay the amount collected as tax even after it is deposited with or paid by them to the <ORG>, Government, and a statutory provision which deprives them of their right to claim refund amounts to an unreasonable restriction, because they are under an obligation to pay the amount to purchasers but they cannot reimburse themselves by recourse to the <ORG> which holds the amounts.
RulingByLowerCourt	But by s. 9B, the assessees were liable to deposit the amount in excess of what was lawfully recoverable from the purchasers as tax' When under the orders of assessment they paid amounts to the <ORG>,  requirements of s. 9B were complied with and the amount remained with the <ORG> in deposit, subject to the obligation, if a demand was made within the period prescribed, to restore the same to the persons from whom the assessees had recovered it.
RulingByLowerCourt	We do not think that there is any reason to hold that the assessees would be exposed to any enforceable claims at the instance of the purchasers to refund the tax collected by them if they have deposited it with the <ORG> in discharge of the statutory obligation incurred by them.
RulingByLowerCourt	Appeals Nos.
Fact	273 and 274 of 1960 will therefore be dismissed and Appeals Nos.
RulingByPresentCourt	275 to 277 of 1960 will be allowed.
RulingByPresentCourt	As the <ORG> succeeds relying upon a statute enacted after the judgment was pronounced by <ORG>, we direct that there shall be no order as to costs of the appeals in this court.
Fact	Appeals Nos.
Precedent	273 and 274 of 1960 dismissed.
Precedent	Appeals Nos.
Precedent	275 to 277 of 1960 allowed.
Precedent	556
