Fact	JUDGMENT P.V.
Fact	<NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This is an appeal from the judgment of <NAME>, in Appeal No.
Fact	13 of 1950, reversing the decree and judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge, Cuddalore, in O.S.
Fact	No.
Fact	19 of 1948.
Fact	The plaintiffs who are the appellant here filed a suit on the foot of a mortgage, Exhibit A-1, dated 25th February, 1933, executed by the 4th respondent in favour of one <NAME>.
Fact	<NAME> died in 1937, leaving as her heirs four sons and one daughter.
Fact	One of the sons, <NAME>, was adjudicated an insolvent in I.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	24 of 1933 on the file of the Sub-Court, Cuddalore, and his estate became vested in the Official Receiver of South Arcot.
Fact	The appellants who represent the interests of all the heirs of <NAME> except <NAME> filed a suit to recover the mortgage debt in the Sub-Court, Cuddalore.
Fact	Their claim was only in regard to their 7/9th share in the mortgage.
Fact	They valued their share of the mortgage amount at Rs.
Fact	8,750 and giving up their claim in respect of Rs.
Fact	250 filed th e suit to recover Rs.
Fact	8,500.
Fact	Unfortunately they did not make either <NAME> or the Official Receiver, in whom the estate of <NAME> vested, as party to the suit.
Fact	Respondents 1 to 3 and 5 claim to have purchased the interests of the mortgagor and the other respondents claim some interest either as alienees of portions or lessees of the hypotheca.
Fact	2.
Fact	Respondents 1 to 3 and 5 and 6 objected to the frame of the suit in that the interest of <NAME> in the mortgage was not represented therein.
Fact	The plaintiffs thereupon filed I.A.
Fact	No.
Fact	524 of 1948 to implead the Official Receiver as party defendant and to amend the plaint.
Fact	That application was ordered on 14th December, 1948, but it is admitted that on the date when the application was filed the suit had become barred in regard to the claim of <NAME>.
Fact	The contesting respondents raised several questions but the most important of them were covered by issues 3 and 6 in the suit.
Fact	They raised the question whether the plaintiffs were entitled to  sue for their share of the mortgage amount alone and whether the suit as a whole was barred by limitation, as a necessary party had been impleaded out of time.
Fact	3.
Fact	The learned Subordinate Judge held that as the Official Receiver was brought on record the suit was not barred and that the plaintiffs could maintain the suit for their 7/9th share.
Fact	The learned Judge therefore passed a preliminary mortgage decree.
Fact	Respondents 1 to 3 filed an appeal against that decree to this Court.
Fact	<NAME> who heard the appeal held that the omission to implead the Official Receiver as a party defendant before the expiry of twelve years from the date fixed for redemption of the mortgage was fatal to the whole suit and, in that view, he dismissed the suit.
Fact	The plaintiffs have, therefore, filed the above appeal under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent.
Fact	Mr. <NAME> appearing for the appellants contended that the appellants could maintain the suit to recover their share of the mortgage amount and that the impleading of t he Official Receiver after the period of limitation had expired in respect of the claim on the mortgage would not entail a dismissal of the suit in regard to the appellants' claim.
Fact	He relied in this connection upon a decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1739150> .
Fact	In that case one of the two persons entitled to the mortgage money filed a suit to recover his share.
Fact	The learned Judges held that a decree could be passed for the amount claimed in the absence of the other person interested in the mortgage money.
Fact	They considered the question only from two points of view, namely, Order 1, rule, 9, Civil Procedure Code, and the hardship to the mortgagor.
Fact	On the first question they held that as the controversy in the case was only in regard to the actual amount claimed, namely the share of the plaintiff and as the other mortgagee was not interested in the result of the suit, the omission to implead him would not entail the dismissal of the suit, as Order 1, Rule 9, Civil Procedure Code, enables the Court to d etermine the rights of the parties actually before the <ORG>, leaving the rights and interests of others unaffected.
Fact	They held that the mortgagor would not be affected by the suit as the claim of the other mortgagee was barred by the time the suit came up for hearing and that, therefore, there would be no case of a second suit being filed.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to agree with the learned Judges who decided this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is well settled that a mortgage is one and indivisible in regard to the amount and security.
Precedent	<CITATION_1052400> (1898) I.L.R.
Precedent	22 Mad.
Precedent	209 at 211, Subramania Iyer, J., observed as follows:  The pleader for the respondent urged strongly that the rule entitling a person to redeem the whole in circumstances like the present is opposed to principle in as much as a mortgagee, for whose benefit the rule that a mortgage is indivisible has been introduced, may waive it.
RatioOfTheDecision	But a mortgage for an entire sum is from its very purpose indivisible; a division of such a mortgage, borrowing the language of a text writer,  is conceivable in theory and may be carried out in practice.
RatioOfTheDecision	But in order that a mortgage may fully attain its end of securing satisfaction of the entire obligation in the rank and with the efficacy which the law or the will of the parties determined, it is essential that it should not suffer any disintegration.
RatioOfTheDecision	This character of indivisibility exists not only with reference to the mortgagee, who may generally be more benefited thereby, but also with reference to the mortgagor.
RatioOfTheDecision	And save as a matter of special arrangement and bargain entered into between of all the persons interested, neither the mortgagor nor the mortgagee, nor persons acquiring through either a partial interest in the subject, can, under the mortgage, get relief except in consonance with the principle of indivisibility referred to.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not open to some of the mortgagees to split up the debt without the concurrence of the other mortgagees and the mortgagor.
Precedent	<CITATION_575502> (1937) 2 M.L.J.
Precedent	666, Varadachariar, J., referred to the distinct ion between the case of a puisne mortgagee and a co-mortgagee and pointed out that while it was open to a puisne mortgagee to bring the hypotheca to sale subject to a prior mortgage, a co-mortgagee cannot sell it subject to the other co-mortgagee's right.
Precedent	The learned Judge observed:  Further, if it becomes necessary to sell the whole or anything in excess of a proportionate part of the hypotheca to realise even the amount due to the plaintiff-co-mortgagee, it will be neither fair nor consistent with the policy of the law to allow the plaintiff to appropriate the proceeds wholly in satisfaction of his claim.
Precedent	Justice can be done between all the parties concerned only by providing in the decree for the distribution of the sale proceeds amongst the co-mortgagees.
Precedent	The learned Judge, therefore, was of opinion that a mortgage was a single cause of action.
Precedent	<CITATION_1482364> (1919) 37 M.L.J.
Precedent	483 : L.R.
Fact	46 I.A.
Precedent	272 : I.L.R.
Precedent	47 Cal.
Precedent	175 at 177 (P.C.
Argument	), it was a case of a single mortgage executed in respect of the same  property to secure two sums of money respectively payable to two mortgagees.
Argument	<ORG> held that the mortgage clearly effected a conveyance of the real estate to the mortgagees as tenants is common and that it was not a mortgage to each of a divided half but a conveyance to them of the whole property.
Precedent	At page 179, Lord <NAME> observed:  Where a mortgage is made by one mortgagor to two tenants in common, the right of either mortgagee who desires to realise the mortgaged property and obtain payment of the debt if the consent of the co-mortgagee cannot be obtained, is to add the co-mortgagee as a defendant to the suit and to ask for the proper mortgage decree which would provide for all the necessary accounts and payments, excepting that there could be no judgment for a sum of money entered as between the mortgagee defendant and the mortgagor.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <ORG>1948) Bom.
Fact	158, one of the heirs of a mortgagee filed a suit to recover the whole of the mortgage debt by sale of the secured  properties without joining the other co-sharers in the mortgage either as plaintiffs or as defendants.
Fact	4.
Fact	They were added subsequently at a time when the claim in respect of the mortgage had become barred by limitation.
Fact	The learned Judges held that the suit should be deemed to have been instituted only when all the co-sharers, mortgagees, were impleaded and as by that time the period of limitation had expired, the suit failed.
Precedent	The basis of this decision was that all the mortgagees were to be represented in the suit not merely by virtue of the procedural law, Order 34, Rule 1, Civil Procedure Code, but by reason of substantive law and the contract between the parties which rendered the mortgage indivisible.
Precedent	It was held that Order 1, Rule 9, Civil Procedure Code, cannot be applied to save such a suit as it is not the right of any co-sharer mortgagee to obtain a decree with respect to his aliquot share of the mortgage money.
Precedent	The principle therefore is that there is indivisibility of the mortgage both in regard  to the debt as well as in regard to the security and that no suit can be filed to enforce a mortgage which entails the disintegration of either of them.
Precedent	In the present case there is a further factor to be taken into account.
Precedent	The mortgagees are not joint promisees.
Precedent	The mortgage was originally executed in favour of a single individual, namely, <NAME>.
Precedent	The persons claiming the mortgage right are the several heirs of that lady who jointly get that right on her death by devolution under the law.
Precedent	That was an indivisible right which the mortgagee, <NAME>, had as the sole mortgagee.
Precedent	Therefore the right of this original mortgagee will be represented by all the co-sharers jointly.
Precedent	Even though they were co-owners under the Mahomadan Law, some of them alone cannot represent others and the absence of anyone of them from the array of parties in the suit would render the representation of the mortgagee's right defective.
Precedent	5.
Precedent	The principle of the singleness of debt has been accepted in a number of decisions of this and o ther High <ORG>s.
Precedent	<CITATION_1492618> (1941) 3 M.L.J.
Precedent	986 I.L.R.
Precedent	(1942) Mad.438, the question arose as to whether a co-mortgagee can sue for his share of the debt and if so what was the amount of <ORG>-fee that he had to pay.
Precedent	The learned Judges held that one of several co-mortgagees who are in the position of tenants in common could sue to recover his share of the mortgage amount, provided that he made his co-mortgagees defendants if they refused to join him as plaintiffs and he sued for the entire mortgage debt by paying the proper <ORG>-fee thereon.
Precedent	The learned Judges referred to the various cases and held that a decree should be passed in respect of the entire debt and that the plaintiff could not get his share until the mortgagor had paid into <ORG> what he owed under the mortgage or the mortgaged property had been sold under the preliminary decree.
Precedent	The primary claim must therefore be for the enforcement of payment of the entire mortgage debt and, if that were realised, the plaintiff would be paid his shar e. To the same effect is the decision of <ORG> in Mati Lal Datta v. Bejav Lal Chakrabarti I.L.R.
Precedent	(1943) 1 Cal.
Precedent	59, where it was held that a co-mortgagee whose share in the mortgage-money is defined or is otherwise ascertainable could maintain a mortgage suit for the share of his dues only if the other co-mortgagees are made defendants in the suit and if in such a suit there was a prayer for taking accounts of the total dues under the mortgage, and for the sale of the whole of mortgaged premises for such dues.
Precedent	On the question of amount of Court-fees to be paid for such a suit, the learned Judges expressed a different view.
Precedent	6.
Precedent	We have referred to the decision in <NAME> v. Rachappa I.L.R.
Precedent	(1948) Bom.
Precedent	158, where it was held that a suit filed at the instance of some of the co-mortgagees without impleading the rest was defective and could not be held to be legally laid.
Precedent	<CITATION_1350869> , followed the <ORG> decision in <NAME> v. Rachappa I.L.R.
Precedent	(1948) Bom.
Precedent	158.
Precedent	<CITATION_617572>  (1947) 1 M.L.J.
Fact	279, the question arose in a different form.
Fact	Two of the three mortgagees filed a suit on the foot of the mortgage for recovery of the whole amount, impleading the third mortgagee as one of the defendants.
Fact	The <ORG>, however, passed a decree only for two thirds share of the amount due to the plaintiffs and directed the other mortgagee to recover his one third share in a separate suit.
Fact	The mortgaged properties were not sold through <ORG> but were sold privately to the appellant who paid off the decree debt.
Precedent	In a suit by the other mortgagee to recover his share of the mortgage amount, it was held that by reason of the previous decision expressly reserving the right of the defendant mortgagee to proceed with the mortgaged properties, the claim was maintainable.
Precedent	The learned Judges considered the cases on the subject and held that the former decree proceeded upon a defective basis but that in the circumstances of the case the defendant mortgagee's rights were left unaffected.
Precedent	In a recent unreported  decision by one of us in S.A. No.
Precedent	1919 of 1949, it was held that a decree could not be passed for part of the mortgage debt.
Precedent	As pointed out by the learned Judges who decided <CITATION_617572> (1947) 1 M.L.J.
RatioOfTheDecision	279, the law as to how a suit by one of the several co-mortgagees is to be framed is fairly clear.
RatioOfTheDecision	The suit should be for the entire debt and all the mortgagees should be made parties to the suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is based not merely on the principle underlying Order 34, Rule 1, Civil Procedure Code, and the principle that the mortgagor should not be harassed by several litigations in respect of the same mortgage, but on the substantive principle of the mortgage law, that the debt as well as the security of the mortgage is indivisible.
RatioOfTheDecision	Normally all the mortgagees should join but, if some of them refuse to join, they should be included as defendants.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such mortgagee defendants are not pro forma parties but are necessary parties in that the mortgage right vests in them along with the plaintiffs mortgagees.
RatioOfTheDecision	The omission  therefore to implead them within the time when the mortgage remains enforceable would result in the dismissal of the suit as the plaintiffs would not completely represent the mortgagees interests.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Judges of <ORG> in <CITATION_1739150> , considered the case only from the point of procedural law and of the hardship to the mortgagor.
RatioOfTheDecision	We find that the attention of the learned Judges was not invited to the substantive law regarding the indivisibility of the mortgage.
RatioOfTheDecision	Both on principle and on authority the decision in that case appears to us to require reconsideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this connection it is necessary to point out that an omission to implead all the mortgagees either as plaintiffs or as defendants is different from a case where all the persons interested in the equity of redemption are not impleaded as parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a case the omission to implead some of the persons interested in the equity of redemption will not entail the dismissal of the suit as the rights of the parties who are  before the Court can be adjudicated leaving the rights of others not made parties to the action unaffected.
Precedent	Vide Nagenderan Chettiar v. <NAME> (1933) 65 M.L.J.
Precedent	108 : I.L.R.
Precedent	56 Mad.
Precedent	846 (F.B.).
Argument	7.
Argument	We, therefore, agree with <NAME>, that the suit as laid was incompetent and that having regard to the provisions of Section 22 of the Limitation Act, the addition of the Official Receiver after the period of limitation had expired would not render the suit competent on the date on which it was filed.
Argument	8.
RulingByPresentCourt	The result is that the appeal fails and is dismissed.
