Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: STATE OF BIHAR DATE OF JUDGMENT: 19/01/1967 BENCH: <NAME>, S.M.
Fact	BENCH: <NAME>, S.M.
Fact	<NAME>, M. VAIDYIALINGAM, C.A.
Fact	CITATION: 1967 AIR 1167 1967 SCR (2) 423 CITATOR INFO : R 1977 SC1172 (17) R 1978 SC1568 (4) R 1979 SC 339 (3,10) ACT: Code of Criminal Procedure (Act 5 of 1898), ss.
Fact	190(1) (b) and 2O7-Magistrate taking cognizance of offence on police report-Jurisdictlion to proceed against accused not sent up by police.
Fact	Discharge of accused-Whether possible, when accused not included in the charge-sheet.
Fact	HEADNOTE: The police investigated into a complaint against the appellant and others, accepted the appellant's plea of alibi and filed a charge sheet against the others for offences, under ss.
Fact	302 , 201 and 149 I.P.C., before the Sub-Divisional Magistrate.
Fact	The Magistrate recorded that the appellant was discharged -and transferred the case for enquiry to another Magistrate, who, after examining two witnesses, ordered the issue of a non-bailable warrant against the a ppellant, for proceeding against him along with the other accused under s. 207-A Cr.
Fact	P.C.
Fact	The order was confirmed by <ORG> and <ORG>.
Fact	In appeal to this Court, HELD:(1) There could be no discharge of the appellant when he was not included as an accused in the charge-sheet submitted by the police.
Fact	[426 C] (2)The appellant could be proceeded against along with the other accused under S. 207-A .
Fact	[426 B] The Sub-divisional Magistrate had taken cognizance of the offence upon the written report of the police, that is, under s. 190(1)(b) , Cr.
Fact	P.C Therefore, the proceeding was instituted under s. 207(a) and not under s. 207(b) .
Fact	The cognizance, however, was of the offence only and not of the offenders.
Fact	Having taken cognizance of the offence, he had to find out who the real offenders were, and if he came to the conclusion that apart from the persons sent up by the police some other persons were involved.
Argument	It was his duty to proceed against those persons also.
Argument	The summoning of the appellant as an addit ional accused was part of the proceeding initiated by his taking cognizance of the offence.
Precedent	[427 B-C, 4Z8 <CITATION_320814> .
Precedent	1 S.C.R.
Precedent	269, followed.
Precedent	JUDGMENT:  CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No.
Precedent	189 of 1964.
Precedent	Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated April 10, 1964 of <ORG> in Criminal Revision No.
Precedent	896 of 1961.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME>, for the appellant.
Fact	<NAME>, for the respondent.
Fact	424  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, J.
Fact	This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of <ORG> dismissing Criminal Revision No.
Fact	896 of 1961 filed by the appellant <NAME>.
Fact	The relevant facts for appreciating the points raised before us are as follows :- The appellant was one of the 15 persons mentioned as assailants in the First Information Report dated July 29, 1959, lodged by one <NAME>.
Fact	The police investigated the case and during the investigation the appellant set up an alibi.
Fact	The p olice accepted the alibi and did not include his name as an accused in the final report under s. 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
Fact	His name was, however, mentioned in column No.
Fact	2 of the Charge Sheet under the heading "not sent up".
Fact	On April 5, 1961, the Sub-divisional Magistrate passed the following order "C. S. No.
Fact	12 dated 234-3-61 u/s 149/302/201  1.
Fact	P. C. received against the accused noted in col. 3 and 4 of C. S.  Cog.
Fact	taken u/s 149/302/201 1.
Fact	P. C. and case transferred to Sri L. P. Singh Magt........ class for enquiry under Chapter XVIII Cr.
Fact	P. C. Accused not sent up for trial is discharged."
Fact	On transfer, <NAME>, Magistrate, took up the hearing of the case on May 1961.
Fact	In the meantime a petition had been filed on April .1, 1961, praying that the appellant be summoned by the Magistrate.
Fact	On May 2, 1961,.
Fact	<NAME>, P. W. 1, was examined and in his examinations he implicated the appellant as one of the persons who were present in the mob which is alleged to have killed <NAME>.
Fact	On  the same day <NAME>, <NAME>, also implicated the appellant in his examination-in-chief.
Fact	It appears that the counsel for <NAME>, the person who lodged the F.I.R., requested the Magistrate to summon the appellant as well for trial, as prayed for in the petition dated April 11, 1961, The Magistrate, after hearing the Assistant District Prosecutor as well as the counsel for the informant and the accused, passed the following order " <NAME> is named in F. I. R. and as submitted by <NAME> 5 witnesses have named him before police and <NAME> examined before me has also named him.
Fact	So in my opinion it is , proper to add <NAME>.
Fact	<NAME> also in this enquiry as accused.
Fact	'At this stage one petition has been filed by lawyer of accused that cross-examination of P.W.s be allowed to be done after appearance of <NAME>.
Fact	This contention is quite reasonable otherwise cross-examination will have to be done again after appearance of <NAME> and so prayer .of defence is allowed.
Fact	Examined <NAME> also in chief.
Fact	He has also named Rahgubans to be a member of the mob of these accused at the time of occurrence.
Fact	So issue non-bailable W/A against <NAME> according to address given by P.W.
Fact	today as the allegation against Raghubans be very serious one.
Fact	Send the process peon returnable by 3-6-1961.
Fact	Other accused will reattend."
Fact	The appellant challenged this order before the Sessions Judge.
Fact	it was urged before him that the Magistrate had no jurisdiction to summon the appellant because the Sub- divisional Magistrate had already dismissed a protest petition on merits.
Fact	The Sessions Judge rejected the argument and held that it was open to the Magistrate to summon any person against whom he found sufficient evidence in the case.
Fact	The appellant then filed a criminal revision before <ORG>.
Fact	Before <ORG> it was urged, first, that the petition dated April 11, 1961, was';, a petition of complaint and, therefore, summoning the appellant on the basis of a petition of complaint would result in a separate complai nt case and he could not be tried along with the other accused under s. 207A of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
Argument	Secondly, it was urged that the order of the Magistrate was irregular as he had summoned the appellant on the same grounds on which the Sub.divisional Magistrate had discharged him.
Argument	On the first point <ORG> held that the order of the Magistrate did not result in a separate complaint case against the appellant as "the present case was instituted when the sub-divisional Magistrate took cognizance of an offence reported by the <ORG>, and therefore, the case shall be deemed to have been instituted oft the police report."
Precedent	<ORG> further observed that "it is' therefore, clear from the language of section 190 of the Code that the Magistrate takes cognizance of an offence made out in the police report or in 1 the petition of complaint and there, is nothing like taking cognizance of the offenders at that stage.
Precedent	It has to be decided on the materials on record as to who actually the offenders  may be only after cognizance of the offence has been taken.
Precedent	On the facts of the instant case, therefore, cognizance of the offence has been taken on a police report, and the order of the transferee Magistrate summoning <NAME> does not amount to taking cognizance of an offence."
Precedent	On the second point <ORG> held that the Magistrate did not summon the appellant only on those grounds which were before the Sub-divisional Magistrate as the materials before the two Magistrates were not identical.
Precedent	The Sub-divisional Magistrate had acted on the Police report alone but the Magistrate took into consideration the evidence of the two prosecution witnesses examined in court as well.
Precedent	The learned counsel for the appellant, Mr. <NAME>, raises two points before us; first that the discharge of the appellant by the order dated April 5, 1961, by the Sub- divisional Magistrate was final, and secondly, that the proper procedure to be observed on the facts of this case was not under s. 207A but under the subs equent sections in Chapter XVIII of the Criminal Procedure Code .
RatioOfTheDecision	We see no force in these points.
RatioOfTheDecision	Regarding the first point NV.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> urges that judicial refusal to summon amounts to discharge.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no force in, this contention because there cannot be any question of discharge when the appellant was not sent' up upon the charge-sheet submitted by the police.
Argument	Coming to the second point the learned counsel for the ap- pellant contends that no proceeding was instituted against the appellant on a police report within the meaning of s. 207A of the Code because the appellant's name was not included in the charge sheet.
Argument	He says that although cognizance might have been taken of an offence under s. 190(1)(b) no proceeding as such was instituted against the appellant at this stage; the proceeding was instituted when a non-bailable warrant was issued against the appellant and this proceeding was instituted not on the basis of a police report but on the basis of evidence taken before the Ma- gistrate, and, therefo re, he says, t is a proceeding falling within s. 207(b) .
Precedent	Section 190(i) and 207 of the Code read as follows " 190(1) Except as hereinafter provided, any Presidency Magistrate, District Magistrate or Sub-divisional Magistrate, and any other Magistrate specially empowered in this behalf, may, take cognizance of any offence-  (a) upon receiving a complaint of facts which constitute such offence;  (b) upon a report in writing of such facts made by any police officer;  (c) upon information received from any person other than a police-officer, or upon his own knowledge or suspicion, that such offence has beer.
Precedent	committed."
Precedent	"207.
Precedent	In every inquiry before a Magistrate where the case is triable exclusively by a court of Session or <ORG>, or, in the opinion of the Magistrate, ought to be tried by such Court, the Magistrate shall-  (a)in any proceeding instituted on a police report, follow the procedure specified in s. 207A ; and  (b)in any other proceeding, follow the procedure specified in the other provisions  of this Chapter."
Precedent	It seems to us that s. 207(a) refers back to s. 190(1)(b) ; in other words, the police reportmentioned in s. 207(a) is the report mentioned in s. 190(1) (b), and once cognizance is taken under s. 190(1)(b) , a proceeding is instituted within s. 207(a) .
Precedent	<NAME>, J., speaking for the <ORG>, while considering the interpretation of s. 251-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure in <CITATION_320814> () observed as follows "In our judgment the meaning which is sought to be given to a 'police report' is not correct.
Precedent	In s. 190 , a distinction is made between the classes of persons who, can start a criminal prosecution.
Precedent	Under the three clauses of s. 190(1) , to which we have already referred, criminal prosecution can be initiated (i) by a police officer by a report in writing, (ii) upon information received from any person other than a police officer or upon the Magistrate's own knowledge or suspicion, and (iii) upon receiving a complaint of facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the report in this casefalls within (i) above,  then the procedure under s. 251A , Criminal Procedure Code , must be followed.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it falls.
RatioOfTheDecision	in (ii) or (iii) then the procedure under s. 252 , Criminal Procedure Code , must be followed.
Precedent	We are thus concerned to find out whether the report of the police officer in writing in this case can be described as a 'complaint of facts' or as 'information received' from any person other than a police officer.'
Precedent	That it cannot be the latter is obvious enough because the information is from a police officer.
Precedent	The term 'complaint' in this connection has been defined by the Code of Criminal Procedure and it 'means the allegation made orally or in writing to a Magistrate, with a view to his taking action under the Code , that some person, whether known or unknown, has committed an offence, but it does not include the report of a police officer.'
Precedent	[see s. 4(1) (h].
Precedent	It, therefore, follows that s. 252 , Criminal Procedure Code , can only apply to those cases which are instituted otherwise than on a police report, that is to say,  upon complaints which are not reports of a police officer or upon information received from persons other than a police officer."
Precedent	(1) [1965]1 S.C.R.
Precedent	269.
Precedent	428  Similarly S. 207(b) Can Only apply if the case was instituted ,otherwise than on a police report.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the facts of this case it is quite clear that the case does not fall within s. 190(1)(a) or s. 190(1)(c) because the Sub- divisional Magistrate had taken cognizance of the offence on April 5, 1961.
Argument	But, says Mr. <NAME>, that though it is true that cognizance was taken on April 5, 1961, the cognizance was taken of the offence as far as the other accused were concerned and not as far is the appellant was concerned, as a Matter of fact the appellant had been rightly or wrongly discharged.
Precedent	in our opinion once cognizance has been taken by the Magistrate, he takes cognizance of an offence and not the offenders; once he takes cognizance of an offence it is his duty to find out who the offenders really are and once he comes to the Conclusion that apart from t he persons sent up by the police 'Some other persons are involved it is his duty to proceed against those persons.
Precedent	The summoning of the additional accused is part of the proceeding initiated by his taking cognizance of an offence.
Precedent	As pointed out by this Court in <CITATION_320814> (1) the term "complaint" would include allegations made against persons unknown.
Precedent	If a Magistrate takes -cognizance under s. 190(1)(a) on the basis of a complaint of facts he would take cognizance and a proceeding would be instituted ,even though persons who had committed the offence were not 'known at that time.
Precedent	The same position prevails, in our view, under s. 190(1)(b).
Precedent	Mr. <NAME>, the learned counsel for the respondent brought  -to our notice some decisions which have taken the same view.
Precedent	<ORG> in <CITATION_166714> ( ), following the <ORG> decision of <ORG> Sind, in <NAME> v. <NAME>( ), held that when a Magistrate takes 'Cognizance under s. 190(1) b) on a police report he takes cogn izance of the offence and not merely of the particular persons named in the charge sheet, and therefore, the Magistrate is entitled ,to summon additional accused against whom he considers that there was good evidence, after perusal of the statements recorded by the police under s. 161 and the other documents referred to in s. 173 even without examination of witnesses in court.
Precedent	<ORG> in <CITATION_1655670> (4) and <ORG> in <NAME> v. The State(5) also expressed a :similar view.
Precedent	In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed.
Precedent	V.P.S.
Precedent	Appeal dismissed.
Precedent	(1) [1965] 1 S.C.R.
Precedent	269.
Precedent	(2) A.I.R.
Precedent	1962 Cal.
Precedent	133.
Precedent	(3) A.I.R.
Precedent	1924 Sind 7 1.
Precedent	(4) A.I.R.
Precedent	1964 Pun.
Precedent	351.
Precedent	(5) [1963] 1 Cr.
Precedent	L.J.
Precedent	66.
Precedent	429
