Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
RulingByLowerCourt	1.
Fact	<ORG>, Cochin Bench, has made this reference and the question referred is :  " Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the proceedings initiated under Section 147(b) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, are legal and valid?"
Fact	2.
Fact	The reference relates to the assessment year 1963-64, the relevant previous year being 1137 M.E.
Fact	The original assessment was completed on March 16,1964.
Fact	The Income-tax Officer subsequently reopened the assessment under Section 147(b) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter to be referred to as " the Act") on the ground that the capital gains arising to the assessee on account of the transfer of a property had not been brought to tax.
Fact	Following facts are relevant in this connection:  A property by name Machungal Purayidom belonged originally to the assessee's wife, <NAME>.
Fact	She died on October 21, 1954, leaving a will whereby the property was bequeathed to her 4 daughters, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> i in equal shares.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME> sold their interest in the property to the assessee on January 30, 1958, for Rs.
Fact	10,000, Thus, one-half of the entire property devolved on the assessee.
Fact	He then sold this one-half interest in the property to his daughter, <NAME>, on September 5, 1961, for Rs.
Fact	40,000.
Fact	In the reassessment the capital gains sought to be assessed was the difference between the selling price of Rs.
Fact	40,000 and the purchase price of Rs.
Fact	10,000, namely, Rs.
Fact	30,000.
Fact	At the time of the original assessment it was contended before the Income-tax Officer that in the estate duty proceedings following the death of assessee's wife, the property had been valued at Rs.
Fact	42,680.
Fact	So, the value of the one-half share which the assessee had purchased was Rs.
Fact	21,340.
Fact	On this basis the capital gains arising in the transaction was treated as Rs.
Fact	18,660 (Rs.
Argument	40,000--21,340).
Argument	It was also alleged that the assessee had put up a building worth Rs.
Fact	10,000 in 1957 and from the amount of Rs.
Fact	18,660 this amount of Rs .
Fact	10,000 had to be deducted.
Fact	The Income-tax Officer accepted these contentions and brought to tax as capital gains only the amount of Rs.
Fact	8,660.
Fact	During the reassessment proceedings under Section 147(b) the Income-tax Officer held that since the assessee had purchased the half share in the property only in 1958, the cost of the building alleged to have been put up in 1957 could not be treated as an improvement within the meaning of Section 48 and that the market value of the property as fixed in the estate duty proceedings could not be taken as the amount for which the property had been purchased by the assessee.
Fact	The Income-tax Officer, therefore, came to the conclusion that the income chargeable to tax had escaped assessment.
Argument	He, accordingly, brought to tax the amount of Rs.
Argument	30,000 as capital gains.
Argument	3.
Fact	Section 147 of the Act is to the following effect: "If-  (a) the Income-tax Officer has reason to believe that, by reason of the omission or failure on the part of an assessee to make a return under Section 13 9 for any assessment year to the Income-tax Officer, or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year, or  (b) notwithstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned in Clause (a) on the part of the assessee, the Income-tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year  4.
Fact	The point for consideration is what would consitute " information " within the meaning of Section 147(b) (34(1)(b) of the old Act).
Precedent	This is a vexed question and to use the words of <NAME> in <CITATION_1448253> .,  74 I.T.R.
Precedent	107 (Cal.
Precedent	), still remains a rich germinating ground for forensic Arguments.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even though there is no decision directly on the point, guidelines are supplied by some of the decisions of <ORG> and the various <ORG> cited at the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Decisions are, however, uniform on the po ints to be satisfied before a reassessment under Section 147 can be resorted to, and they are :  (1) The Income-tax Officer should receive information after the original assessment; and (2) In consequence of such information he should reasonably believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment.
RatioOfTheDecision	5.
Fact	Information, in the present case, is a communication from the audit party pointing out under the relevant provisions of the Act that it was wrong to have allowed the market value of the property, namely, Rs.
Fact	21,340, to be substituted for the consideration of Rs.
Fact	10,000 paid and that the application of Section 52(2) was not justified as the assessee neither possessed the property before January 1, 1954, nor received it as a gift from one who possessed it before January 1, 1954.
Fact	It was also pointed out that the property having been purchased by the assessee in 1958, cost of improvements, if any, effected thereafter, alone could be deducted and the alleged improvements had been effected in 1957, when t he assessee had no rights over the property.
Fact	It was on this information, according to the revenue, that the Income-tax Officer entertained the plea that the income had escaped assessment.
Argument	6.
Argument	<ORG> has observed in <CITATION_839441> .,  67 I.T.R.
Argument	11;  1 S.C.R.
Argument	10 (S.C.):  ".... that 'information in the context it occurs in Section 147(b) must mean instruction or knowledge derived from an external source concerning facts or particulars, or as to law relating to a matter bearing on the assessment.
Argument	Mere change of opinion on the part of the Income-tax Officer cannot constitute information so as to empower the Income-tax Officer to start proceedings under Section 147(b) ."
Argument	7.
Argument	Information may be in respect of facts or particulars or it may be as to the correct state of the law, but it must be from an extraneous source as distinguished from a mere change of opinion.
Argument	The revenue favours the view that no limitation could justifiably be placed on the nature or character of the external source from which com munication as to the state of the law can be derived by the Income-tax Officer.
Argument	Whether it be <ORG> or <ORG> or the <ORG> or the Appellate Assistant Commissioner or for the matter of that any person or authority, the communication would be information derived from an external source.
Argument	On behalf of the assessee, on the other hand, the view is sought to be projected that instruction or knowledge as to the state of the law must be received from some judicial authority such as <ORG> or <ORG> which is competent to declare the law and whose decisions have the effect of binding precedents; if it is received from any other source it would not be " information " as to the state of the law within the meaning of Section 147(b) of the Act.
Argument	This latter view gains support from <ORG> in <NAME> v. <NAME>, Income-tax Officer,  80 I.T.R.
Argument	188 (Guj.
Argument	), and the former view is endorsed by <ORG> in <CITATION_319187> ,  841.T.R.
Argument	584 (Delhi).
Argument	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	In elucidation of the point <ORG> in the aforesaid decision would point out that information or knowledge derived from an external source must be from a person, body or authority competent and authorised to give it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must have an element of authority behind it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must not be a mere information of some one who has no authority to pronounce upon the law.
RatioOfTheDecision	The audit department is not an authority competent and authorised to declare the correct state of the law or to pronounce upon it.
Fact	In the above cited case, the facts relevant for our purpose are:  The petitioner (assessee) owned two items of immovable property, one in Ahmedabad and the other in Bombay.
Fact	During the year of account (1965-66), both the properties were occupied by the petitioner (self-occupied properties).
Fact	Petitioner claimed Rs.
Fact	4,052 to be deducted towards municipal tax in determining the annual value of the properties under Section 23(2) for computing the income of the properties under income from house property.
Fact	Assessmen t was made in March, 1966.
Fact	In July, 1969, the Income-tax Officer addressed a letter calling upon the petitioner to show cause why the amount of municipal tax allowed as deduction should not be added back on the ground that it was wrongly allowed.
Argument	The assessee questioned the competency of the officer to reopen the assessment under Section 147 .
Argument	The Income-tax Officer pointed out that income-tax assessments are subjected to audit by the office of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, and while auditing the assessment of the petitioner for assessment year 1965-66, the audit department had pointed out that on a true interpretation of Section 23(2) the deduction of municipal tax in respect of self-occupied properties was not admissible.
Argument	This information, according to him, constituted information under Section 147(b) .
Argument	The court held that opinion as to the state of the law by any and every person cannot constitute information, so as to entitle the Income-tax Officer to reopen an assessment.
Argument	9.
RatioOfTheDecision	The opposite  view seems to have found favour with <ORG> as is seen from its decision in <CITATION_319187> , mentioned already.
Fact	, There, the original assessment of the assessee for 1960-61 was made by the Income-tax Officer, treating the assessee's income from bank deposits as earned income and accepting her claim for deduction of salary paid to her daughter-in-law as expenditure.
Fact	Thereafter, the revenue audit staff working under the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, while scrutinising the assessments, brought to the notice of the department that the Income-tax Officer had wrongly treated the interest income as business income, and had wrongly allowed the assessee's claim with regard to the salary paid to her daughter-in-law.
Fact	Acting upon the scrutiny note of the Revenue Audit, the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner wrote to the Income-tax Officer to rectify the defects by reopening the assessment under Section 147(b) of the Act.
RulingByLowerCourt	Thereupon, the Income-tax Officer issued notices under the section and m ade reassessments.
RulingByLowerCourt	The court held :  (1) The scrutiny note of <ORG> and the letter of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner constituted " information " within the meaning of Section 147(b) from an " external source " and the assessments were, therefore, valid;  (2) The expression ' external source' used by <ORG> in <CITATION_839441> .
RulingByLowerCourt	could not be restricted to opinions expressed or findings given by courts of law or the tribunal or other authorities under the Income-tax Act .
Fact	(3) Though the reassessment might be the result of a change of opinion on the part of the Income-tax Officer, the change of opinion was not on his own initiative or on his own reconsideration of the available material; it was one brought about as a result of information from an external source which came into his possession subsequent to the original assessments ; and (4) The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has, the statutory right to scrutinise the proceedings of all departments of the Government inclu ding the income-tax department and to point out any defects or mistakes in such proceedings which adversely affect the revenues of the <ORG>.
Fact	It is in the exercise of this statutory power that the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, acting through his revenue audit staff, pointed out what he considered to be the errors committed by the Income-tax Officer in the original assessments.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
RatioOfTheDecision	We think that this decision reflects the correct view and has to be accepted in preference to the other view expressed by <ORG> referred to above.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG>, it must be remembered, did not pin-point or limit " external source " in A.
Argument	<ORG>'s case to judgments of a particular court or authority.
Argument	On the other hand, <ORG> has widened the scope and ambit of " external source " as is evident from the following observation in the judgment:  " Jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officer to reassess income arises if he has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe th at income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment.
Precedent	That information must, (1) [1968] 67 I.T.R.
Precedent	11; [1968] 1 S.C.R.
Precedent	10 (S.C.) it is true, have come into the possession of the Income-tax Officer after the previous assessment, but even if the information be such that it could have been obtained during the previous assessment from an investigation of the materials on the record, or the facts disclosed thereby, or from other inquiry or research into facts or law, but was not in fact obtained, the jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officer is not affected."
Precedent	11.
RatioOfTheDecision	The point on which attention is to be focussed is as to whether the Income-tax Officer had acted on his own initiative or on 'the basis of the fact that the correct position was brought to his notice by some other authority within the scope of the section.
RatioOfTheDecision	No decision was brought to our notice which would in so many terms restrict the scope of " external source " to judgments or orders of courts and Tribunals under the Act.
Precedent	On the other hand, the courts have g one even to the extent of holding that mistakes pointed out by a subordinate or superior officer or an assessee would constitute information disclosed to the Income-tax Officer.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	<CITATION_1777209> ,  42 I.T.R.
Precedent	547, 564 (Mad.)
Precedent	a Division Bench of <ORG>, interpreting the scope of the word " information which has come into his possession " under the section, has observed:  " We are unable to accept the extreme proposition, that nothing that can be found in the record of the assessment, which itself would show escape of assessment or under-assessment, can be viewed as information which led to the belief that there has been escape from assessment or under-assessment.
Precedent	Suppose a mistake in the original order of assessment is not discovered by the Income-tax Officer himself on further scrutiny, but it is brought to his notice by another assessee or even by a subordinate or a superior officer, that would appear to be information disclosed to the Income-tax Officer.
Precedent	If the mistake itself is "not ex traneous to the record and the informant gathered the information from the record, the "immediate source of information to the Income-tax Officer in such circumstances is in one sense extraneous to the record.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is difficult to accept the position that while what is seen by another in the record is ' information' what is seen by the Income-tax Officer himself is not ' information' to him.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the latter case, he just informs himself.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be information in his possession within the meaning of Section 34 .
Precedent	In such cases of obvious mistakes apparent on the face of the record of the assessment, that record itself can be a source of information, if that information leads to a discovery or belief that there has been an escape of assessment or under-assessment."
Precedent	13.
Precedent	The meaning of the word " information " came up again for consideration before <ORG> of this court, to which one of us was party, in <CITATION_538315> ,  64 I.T.R.
Precedent	218 (Ker.
Precedent	), where it was held that to "inform" means to impart knowledge  and a detail available to the Income-tax Officer in the papers filed before him does not by its mere availability become an item of information ".
Precedent	It is transmuted into an item of information in his possession only if and when its existence is realised and its implications recognized.
Precedent	Applying that test to the case before them, the court held that the awareness of the Income-tax Officer for the first time after the assessment order of November, 1957f that the bonus shares were issued not out of premiums received in cash and the consequent result in the light of the Finance Act , 1957, was information within the meaning that expression is used, in Section 34(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act of 1922, and, consequently, the reopening of the assessment under that provision was not illegal.
Precedent	These two decisions, <ORG> y.
Precedent	Commissioner of Income-tax and <ORG>  <CITATION_416340> , are quoted with approval by <ORG> in <CITATION_1322784> ,  21 S.T.C.
Precedent	326;  1 S.C.R.
Precedent	661; A.I.R.
Precedent	1968 S.C. 565, On the same lines more or less, is the decision of this court in a later case, <CITATION_429357> ] 85 I.T.R.
Precedent	102,108(Ker.).
Precedent	There the assessment was in respect of a firm.
Fact	Previously there was another firm, the partners of which were one <NAME> and his three major and minor sons.
Fact	That firm carried on business from January 1, 1959, to July 8, 1959, when <NAME> died.
Fact	After that the new firm was constituted on July 15, 1959.
Fact	There was no need for dissolving the old partnership.
Fact	The Income-tax Officer originally treated these two firms as separate entities and passed two separate assessment orders.
Fact	He assessed the old firm from January 1, 1959, to July 8, 1959, and the new one from July 15 1959, to December 31, 1959.
Fact	Subsequently, the Income-tax Officer issued a notice under section 148 and initiated proceedings under Section 147(b) .
Fact	That was on the basis of the information gathered from the auditor's inspection notes that the old firm was not dissolved but only reconstituted and  so the income of the two firms should have been aggregated and only one assessment made.
Fact	The assessee contended that on the death of <ORG> the firm stood dissolved and that the business carried on by that firm ceased to exist and a new firm was constituted on July 15, 1959, and so, the Income-tax Officer was not justified in clubbing together the income of the two periods.
RulingByLowerCourt	The contention was rejected, and reassessment was made.
RulingByLowerCourt	But, finally, the <ORG>, upholding the contention, held that the Income-tax Officer was not justified in reopening the assessment under Section 147(b) , as he had no information within the meaning of the sub-section.
Precedent	This court, reversing the decision of the <ORG>, observed :  "The Income-tax Officer cannot take any action under this section merely because he happens to change his opinion or to hold an opinion, different from that of his predecessor, on the same set of facts.
Precedent	But the word ' information' does not necessarily imply factual material in contradistinction to the  legal aspect of the case.
Precedent	'Information' may be factual, but the word also includes some cases of ' information' as to the state of the law.
Precedent	The decision of an appellate authority, for instance, under the Income-tax Act on the question as to which assessable entity is chargeable in respect of a particular income is an information on the strength of which the Income-tax Officer can act.
Precedent	The note put up by the audit to the effect that the assessment ought to have been made on the reconstituted firm for the entire income of the two periods, and, therefore, the Income-tax Officer committed an error, was instruction or knowledge derived from an external source and so it would constitute ' information' within the meaning of the term in Section 147(b) .............The Income-tax Officer was, therefore, perfectly competent to initiate proceedings under Section 147(b) ."
Precedent	14.
Precedent	To sum up, the position thus is that " information ", whether factual or as regards the state of the law, should be extraneous, extraneous in the  sense that it should suggest itself to the Income-tax Officer otherwise than by his own subsequent re-thinking.
Precedent	A change of opinion on 'his own reappraisal of the facts already before him cannot constitute "information" for the purpose of the section.
Precedent	But a mistake apparent on the face of the order of assessment would constitute " information" whether someone else supplied that information to the Income-tax Officer or whether he informed himself.
Precedent	An item of information available in the papers filed before the Income-tax Officer will become " information " only when its existence is realised and its implications are understood.
Precedent	15.
RulingByPresentCourt	We are, therefore, of the view that the proceedings initiated in the present case under Section 147(b) on the basis of the audit note are legal and valid.
RulingByPresentCourt	Question answered in the affirmative.
RulingByPresentCourt	16.
RulingByPresentCourt	A copy of this judgment will be sent under the seal of the court and the signature of the Registrar to <ORG>, Cochin Bench.
