RulingByLowerCourt	JUDGMENT <NAME>, Acting C.J.
RulingByLowerCourt	1.
RulingByLowerCourt	This is an appeal from a judgment of Mr. Justice <NAME>, in which he has held, on an application by the respondents, that the award made against them by <ORG> on the 18th July 1919, at the instance of the appellant, is null and void.
Fact	The contract between the parties was made on the 1st August 1918 for the sale of "19 bales of sheeting No.
Fact	3841, 36 inches by 38 yards at Rs.
Fact	19-12-0 per piece; shipment November and December 1918, delivery within 60 days from the date of arrival, payment casb, 2 months' late shipment accepted."
Fact	2.
Fact	The contract contained an arbitration clause in these terms: "Any dispute as to damage, difference, inferiority, short quantity or measure or defeat or amount of allowance to be referred, at seller's option, to <ORG> or other <ORG> as specified thereunder."
Fact	The question of the true scope of this clause came up for consideration by this Court in the case of  <CITATION_76486> 64 Ind.
Fact	Cas.
Precedent	798 : 33 C. L. J.
Precedent	545.
Argument	We were then disposed to hold that Mr. Justice <NAME> had plated an unduly narrow construction upon the arbitration clause, especially as to the meaning of the words "difference" and "inferiority."
Argument	In that case, however, it transpired that there had been no dispute between the parties such as would entitle one of them to invoke the aid of the arbitration clause.
Argument	In the case before as, the buyer appellant had the matter referred to arbitration and his grounds of complaint were stated in these terms: "That the goods are not in terms of the contract and are not covered thereby.
Argument	All these good and similar goods were originally sold by the importing firm to <ORG> (their banians' firm): after such sale, how can the importing firm sell these goods to other parties, treating such goods as the property of the importing firm?
Argument	Correct shipments are not proved and it is not proved that the quantity of goods sold here, had been purchased and provided for in  Japan, others are in the statement hereunder."
Argument	It is plain that some of these grounds of complaint do fall within the scope of the arbitration clause; but ft is equally clear that the other grounds are beyond the scope of the arbitration clause.
Argument	Consequently, the true position is that the appellant invoked the aid of the arbitrators on grounds some of which did, while the others did not, justify the exercise of theirs jurisdiction.
Argument	When the matter went before the arbitrators, they delivered an award, which set out the grounds of complaint (as mentioned above) and then proceeded to formulate the decision: "We have carefully examined all evidence put before us and a ward concealment of contract.
Argument	Messrs, <ORG>, sellers, shall pay to Messrs. <NAME>, buyers, the costs of this arbitration amounting to Rs.
RulingByLowerCourt	125" it will be observed that the award does not state either the fasts found by the arbitrators or the grounds for their decision.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is, consequently, impossible for  us to hold that the award proceeded solely on those grounds which entitled the arbitrators to exercise their jurisdiction under the arbitration clause, and not on any of the grounds which did not afford a basis for the exercise of that jurisdiction.
RulingByLowerCourt	Indeed, the fact that the complaints, as summarised by the appellant, are all set out as a prefase to the award, indicates, prima facie, that the award is based on all the grounds.
RulingByLowerCourt	In these circumstances, when we cannot hold with certainty that the arbitrators acted exclusively on grounds within their jurisdiction, we must apply the principle that if the bad is not separable from the good, the whole is bad, and pronounce the award null and void: <NAME> v. <NAME> (1846) 9 Beav.
RulingByLowerCourt	135 : 50 E. R. 294, <NAME> v. <ORG> (1738) <NAME> 66 : 12 E. R. 1059, <NAME> v. <ORG> (1870) 5 Ex.
Fact	221 affirmed on Appeal (1871) 5 H. L. 418 : 41 L. J. Ex.
Fact	187 : 27 L. T. 1., <NAME> v. <NAME> (1835) 2 C. M. & R. 367 : 4 Dowl.
Fact	457 : 5 L. J.
Fact	(n. s.) Ex.
Fact	24 : 5 T yr. 1047, 41 R. R 733 : 150 E. R. 158.
Argument	3.
Argument	The result is, that the decree made by Mr. Justice <NAME> is affirmed and this appeal dismissed with costs.
Argument	<NAME>, J.
Argument	4.
Argument	I agree.
