Fact	JUDGMENT  1.
Fact	The point involved in these cases has arisen in a batch of cases which was posted for hearing along with these and the question that is raised for our decision is as to the validity of the levy of sales tax on iron flats, iron sheets and iron bars made out of iron scrap which has already been subjected to tax.
Fact	We have heard the various counsel appearing for the petitioners in the entire batch of cases but we render our decision in the above two cases leaving the other cases to be disposed of later on the particular facts.
Fact	Before dealing with the contentions of the assessee in these cases, it is necessary to set out the facts at least in one case and we propose to deal with the facts in Writ Petition No.
Argument	520 of 1968.
Argument	2.
Fact	The petitioners herein are carrying on business of re-rolling steel.
Fact	They buy iron and steel scraps from other registered dealers and convert them into mild steel rounds, flats, angles etc., by rolling them.
Fact	The concerned assessing authority by its Order dated 25th January, 1968,  proposed to assess the said petitioners under the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959, treating their sales turnover of Rs.
Fact	28,20,278.76 of mild steel rounds, flats, angles, etc., as liable to tax at 2 percent, for the assessment year 1966-67.
Fact	The objection to the proposed assessment by the petitioners was that the iron and steel scraps from which rolled mild steel rounds, flats and angles have been made had already suffered tax in the State as first sale of declared goods and that as such rolled mild steel, iron flats and angles are not liable to tax, as they are declared goods Under Section 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act not liable to tax on second and subsequent sales.
Fact	They also contended that the rolled mild steel rounds, flats and angles are not goods different from the iron and steel scraps purchased by them.
Fact	The petitioners filed the above Writ Petition No.
Statute	520 of 1968 for prohibiting the assessing authority from making any assessment on the basis of the said notice proposing assessment.
Argument	3.
Argument	In the  said writ petition they contend that the prescription of single point tax specified in Section 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act hereinafter referred to as the " Central Act " 1956 means and requires a single point tax in respect of the series of sales within the <ORG> of the goods specified in the opening part of each item comprised under the Roman numeral numbering in Section 14 of the said Act, that prescription of a single point tax in respect of item 4, that is "iron and steel", means that there should be a tax at a single point only in the series of sales of "iron and steel" within the <ORG> though the iron and steel may be converted into other items comprised in the definition and that as such any manufactured Article composed of iron and steel which fell within any one of the particular specific items listed in item 4 as being "iron and steel" will have to be taxed only at one prescribed point in the series of sales.
Argument	According to the petitioners all the particular forms of iron and steel mentioned in i tem 4 are the iron and steel either in the crudest form such as pig iron or steel ingots or scrap or Articles produced therefrom in rolling mills, which convert the basic material into usable forms such as plates, sheets, bars or Sections and that it is not permissible to take each particular specification under the same item 4 and levy a single point tax on the series of sales of each particular sub-item within item 4 as it is not possible to contemplate levy of one single point tax on the iron plates, sheets or bars or steel scrap or steel ingots.
Argument	They urge that the levy of sales tax on the rolled steel plates, bars etc., made out of iron and steel scrap or ingots purchased by them will infringe the provisions of Sections 14 and 15 of the Central Sales Tax" Act and as such the levy will be invalid.
Argument	They question the jurisdiction of the assessing authority to make assessment on the alleged second sales of "iron and steel".
Argument	This writ petition is to prohibit the concerned assessing officer from bringing to tax  rolled "iron and steel" bars or plates etc., produced from and out of the scrap iron and steel purchased by them and which had suffered tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before considering the merits of the contentions of the petitioners, it is necessary to set out the relevant statutory provisions.
Statute	Section 3(1) and (2) of the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959, hereinafter referred to as the local Act, is as follows :  Section 3 : Levy of taxes on sales or purchases of goods.-(1) Every dealer (other than a casual trader or agent of a non-resident dealer) whose total turnover for a year is not less than fifteen thousand rupees and every casual trader or agent of a non-resident dealer, whatever be his turnover for the year, shall pay a tax for each year at the rate of three per cent, of his taxable turnover:....  (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-section (1) in the case of goods mentioned in the First Schedule, the tax under this Act shall be payable by a dealer, at the rate and only at the point specified therein on  the turnover in each year relating to such goods whatever be the quantum of turnover in that year.
Statute	Section 4 : "Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 3 , the tax under this Act shall be payable by a dealer on the sale or purchase inside the State of declared goods at the rate and only at the point specified against each in the Second Schedule on the turnover in such goods in each year, whatever be the quantum of turnover in that year.
Statute	5.
Statute	Schedule I to the Act sets out the goods in respect of which single point tax is leviable under Sub-section (2) of Section 3 and Schedule II sets out a list of declared goods in respect of which single point tax only is leviable Under Section 4 of the local Act.
Statute	Item 4 in Schedule II is as follows:  Description of the goods Point of levy Rate of tax percent.
Statute	(1) (2) (3) Iron and steel that is to say- At the point of first sale in the State.
Statute	3 (a) pig iron and iron scrap ; (b) iron plates sold in the same form in which they are directly produced by the rolling mill;  (c) steel scrap, steel ingots, steel billets, steel bars and rods ; and (d) (i) steel plates ; (ii) steel sheets ; (iii) sheet bars and tin bars ; (iv) rolled steel Sections ; and (v) tool alloy steel.
Statute	Items (i) to (v) sold in the same form in which they are directly produced by the rolling mill.
Statute	6.
Statute	Section 14 of the Central Act declares certain goods as being of special importance in <ORG> trade or commerce and item (iv) therein is practically the same as has been set out under item 4 of Schedule II to the Act.
Statute	As a matter of fact the entire Second Schedule is based on the list of goods mentioned in Section 14 .
Statute	Section 15 imposes certain restrictions and conditions in regard to the levy of tax by the States on the sales of declared goods as enjoined by Article 286(3) of the Constitution of India.
Statute	It is useful to set out the said Section 15 as it stood originally:  15.
Statute	Restrictions and conditions in regard to tax on sale or purchase of declared goods within a State.-Every sales tax law of a State shal l, in so far as it imposes or authorises the imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase of declared goods, be subject to the following restrictions and conditions, namely :-  (a) the tax payable under that law in respect of any sale or purchase of such goods inside the <ORG> shall not exceed two per cent, of the sale or purchase price thereof and such tax shall not be levied at more than one stage;  (b) where a tax has been levied uiider that law in respect of the sale or purchase inside the <ORG> of any declared goods and such goods are sold in the course of inter-<ORG> trade or commerce, the tax so levied shall be refunded to such person in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be provided in any law in force in that <ORG>.
Statute	7.
Statute	This Section came into force on 1st October, 1958 and the restrictions imposed by the Section became applicable as and from that date.
Statute	The rate of 2 per cent, mentioned in Sub-section (a) was, however, raised to 3 per cent, by the Finance Act of 1966 with effect from 1st  July, 1966.
Statute	Section 15 ensures that in the case of declared goods they should in all circumstances be liable to tax only at a specified stage in the series of sales and at the prescribed rate.
Statute	8.
Argument	In the light of the above statutory provisions the substantial contention of the petitioners is that "iron atyd steel" cannot be subjected to tax at more than one stage and at more than the prescribed rate of 3 per cent, under any circumstances and that if the sales tax law of any <ORG> imposes or authorises the imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase of "iron and steel" at more than one stage or at more than 3 per cent., such law would be invalid.
RatioOfTheDecision	Admittedly the rate of tax has not exceeded the prescribed rate of 3 per cent, as the rate of tax levied Under Section 4 read with Schedule II of the Act is only 3 per cent and it has not exceeded the rate fixed in Section 15(a) .
RatioOfTheDecision	We are concerned herein only with the question whether by levying tax on rolled "iron and steel" bars and plates etc., made out of iron an d steel scrap and the ingots (already subjected to tax), the revenue has contravened the provisions of Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act prohibiting the levy of tax on "iron and steel" at more than one stage.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the petitioner in W.P.
Argument	No.
Argument	520 of 1968 submitted that the words "that is to say" following "iron and steel" in item (iv) in Section 14 of the Central Act as also in item 4 of Schedule II to the local Act are of considerable importance.
Argument	According to him these words are explanatory of what "iron and steel" is and all rticles enumerated under that head either in their crude form or in their manufactured stage or in any of the forms listed under the sub-headings (a), (b), (c) and (d) are treated as various forms of "iron and steel".
RulingByLowerCourt	It is said that the statute contemplates a single point tax in the series of sales of all forms mentioned under the heading "iron and steel" and that it does not contemplate a single point among the series of sales of Arti cles in various forms mentioned in (a), (b), (c) and (d) of item (iv).
RulingByLowerCourt	In this connection, the learned counsel referred to the decision in <CITATION_571954> , A.I.R.
Fact	1947 P.C.
Argument	72. for ascertaining the scope of the words "that is to say" occurring in item (iv).
Precedent	In that case <ORG> had to deal with the scope of item 21 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Government of India Act, 1935, when they expressed as follows :  The key to item 21 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution Act is to be found in the opening word 'land'.
Precedent	That word is sufficient in itself to include every form of land, whether agricultural or not.
Precedent	'Land', the governing word in the entry is followed by the rest of the item, which goes on to say, 'that is to say'.
Precedent	As to the scope of the words 'that is to say' occurring in item 21, it was held that they introduce the most general concept 'rights in or over land'.
Precedent	10.
Precedent	On the same reasoning, it is possible to say that by the use of the words "that is to say" aft er the words "iron and steel", the <ORG> had intended to adopt the most general concept of "iron and steel" and wanted all forms of iron and steel to be brought within the entry (iv).
Precedent	'The learned counsel also brought to our notice an explanatory note issued by <ORG>, <ORG>, by their letter No.
Precedent	4(2) S.T./58, dated 21st July, 1958, which detailed the following items as falling within item (iv), "iron and steel".
Precedent	A.
Precedent	1.
Precedent	Pig iron.
Precedent	2.
Precedent	Steel ingots.
Precedent	3.
Precedent	Steel billets, blooms and slabs.
Precedent	4.
Precedent	Tin bars.
Precedent	5.
Precedent	Skelp.
Precedent	B.
Precedent	1.
Precedent	Steel bars and rods.
Precedent	2.
Precedent	Structurals (viz.
Precedent	angles, tees, joists and channels).
Precedent	Bearing plates and crossing-sleeper bars.
Precedent	3.
Precedent	Plates.
Precedent	4.
Precedent	Chequered plates.
Precedent	5.
Precedent	Boiler plates.
Precedent	6.
Precedent	Black sheets-plain and corrugated.
Precedent	8.
Precedent	Heavy rails.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	Light rails.
Precedent	10.
Precedent	Fish-plates-heavy and light.
Precedent	11.
Precedent	Tool steel.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	Bullet-proof plates.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	Shell steel blooms and bars.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	Box strapping.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	Baling hoops.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	Gate channels.
Fact	C. 1.
Fact	Hard bright wire.
Fact	2.
Fact	Annealed wire.
Fact	3.
Fact	Galv anised wire.
Fact	4.
Fact	Telegraph wire.
Fact	5.
Fact	Signal wire galvanised.
Fact	D. Tin plates.
Fact	E. Alloy steel.
Fact	F. Iron and steel defectives and scraps.
Argument	11.
Argument	On the basis of the said explanatory note, it was contended that <ORG> had itself treated all the commodities listed under the head A to F as "iron and steel", that the single point tax contemplated by Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act should therefore be levied at only one stage in the series of sales from the raw stage to the final stage of production by the rolling mills and that it is not contemplated that the goods are to be taxed at various stages and in its various forms.
Argument	The learned counsel is willing to concede that "iron and steel" scrap and ingots may be commercially different from the rolled plates, bars and sheets as produced by the petitioners and that the local Act may treat them as different AQrticles for purpose of single point tax so long as there is no prohibition as the one contained in Section 15 of the Central Act.
Argument	But it is sa id that once a prohibition has come into existence in the form of Section 15 of the Central Act, it is not possible for the local Act to treat sales of different forms of iron and steel as constituting separate series of sales for the purpose of levying single point tax Under Section 4 of the local Act and that if the <ORG> were to treat the sales of various forms of iron and steel mentioned under sub-items (a), (b), (c) and (d), as separate series of sales of different commodities and subject them to tax in all its forms, it will be contravening the mandate of single point provided in Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act.
Argument	12.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for some of the petitioners, however, contends that the various forms of "iron and steel" following the words "that is to say" in item 4 cannot be treated as different Articles and that whatever the form of the Articles be, it continues to be "iron and steel".
Argument	13.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> refers to the other items of declared goods ment ioned in Section 14 of the Central Act to substantiate his con-tention that a single point has to be fixed for the series of sales in all forms of Articles mentioned under the entry.
Argument	He refers to the entry (ii) dealing with cotton and states that all kinds of cotton (indigenous or imported) in its unmanufactured state, whether ginned or unginned, baled, pressed or otherwise, are treated as one commodity for purpose of single point levy and that sales of cotton, whether ginned or unginned, suffer only one tax, though ginned cotton and unginned cotton are commercially different as single point has been fixed with reference to series of sales both in the ginned stage and unginned stage.
Argument	He also refers to the entry "hides and skins" which has also contemplated single point levy in the series of sales of hides and skins either raw or dressed.
Argument	It is urged that the Central Act limits the series of sales for purposes of single point levy up to the stage of production by the rolling mill, thus excluding the sales of f abricated materials from the single point scheme and that the single point scheme contemplated by Section 15 should be from the stage of scrap up to the production stage by the rolling mills.
Argument	14.
Argument	The learned counsel relies on the decision in <CITATION_1663733>  25 S.T.C.
Argument	52 (S.C.) in support of his stand that cotton, ginned or unginned, is treated as a single commodity under one item of declared goods and that, though they are two distinct commercial goods, for the purpose of Section 15 of the Central Act it is treated as one item.
Argument	The learned counsel also referred to the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_665168>  17 S.T.C.
Argument	313 (S.C.) where it was held, construing Notification No.
Precedent	58 Under Section 5 of the Madhya Bharat Sales Tax Act, 1950, exempting "iron and steel" from sales tax, that the exemption will include iron and steel bars, flats and plates.
Precedent	The learned Judges in that case negatived the contention of the <ORG> that the expression "iron and steel" meant "iron and steel" in the original con dition and not "iron and steel" in the shape of sheets, bars and plates and that distinction should be made between raw materials of "iron and steel" and the goods prepared out of them.
Precedent	The learned Judges took the view that "iron and steel" used as raw materials for manufacturing other goods also are exempted from taxation, that scrap iron purchased by the assessee was merely re-rolled into bars, flats and plates, that the process was only for convenience of sale and for making them attractive and in acceptable forms and that by the process of re-rolling their character as "iron and steel" is not lost.
Precedent	In these cases also it is urged by the petitioners that the process adopted by them is only re-rolling and that the same does not involve any process of manufacture as such.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	<CITATION_883586>  20 S.T.C.
Argument	430 (S.C.) <ORG> had again to consider the correctness or otherwise of the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_425275>  12 S.T.C 590. holding that when steel is rolled into rolled ste el Sections the outcome is a different and a new commodity, that when it is sold, there is a sale of a different commodity and not a sale of steel over again and that when sales tax is levied on the sale of rolled steel Sections it is not levied second time or at the second stage on the same commodity in the same condition.
Argument	<ORG> had expressed that the purchase of "iron and steel" as raw material was for the purpose of manufacture so as to exempt from tax the manufactured ASrticle, that when iron scrap is converted into rolled steel it undergoes a vital change in the process of manufacture and is converted into a different commodity, that during the process the scrap iron loses its identity and transforms into a new marketable commodity and that the process is certainly one of manufacture.
Argument	16.
Argument	The learned Judges noted Section 15 of the Central Act before and after its amendment in 1053 and stated that while Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act before the amendment described the stage at which  the purchase tax can be levied, Section 15 after the amendment only declares that it cannot be levied at more than one stage and that the stage prescribed Under Section 15 of the Central Act before the amendment and the prohibition against taxation at more than one stage contained in the amended Section would automatically control the provisions of the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948.
Argument	In their view till 1st October, 1958, the <ORG> can levy tax at one stage in respect of purchases of declared goods inside the <ORG> made by a dealer for use by him in the manufacture of goods and that from 1st October, 1958, the <ORG> was enabled to levy tax at any one stage as it chooses.
Argument	They also noted that the amended Section 15 of the Central Act does not fix the stage by its own force but that the Punjab Act , which they had to consider, had provided in Section 2(ff) that the prescribed stage for single point taxation was the stage of purchase by a dealer for use in the manufacture of goods.
RatioOfTheDecision	This decision, according to  the learned counsel for the petitioners, does not decide the question at issue in the case and we also agree with him.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question decided by <ORG> was that when iron and steel scraps and ingots are converted into iron and steel bars and plates, the process involves one of manufacture and this was necessary for the purpose of levying a purchase tax on the purchase of raw material for producing the rolled iron and steel Sections.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Judges have not expressed any view on the question whether in the manufactured state, iron and steel plates and bars etc., cease to be "iron and steel" as defined in item (iv) of Section 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act as they were not concerned with the taxability or otherwise of the sales of manufactured Articles made out of iron and steel scrap.
RatioOfTheDecision	17.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> referred to the words "in the same form" used in sub-items (b) and (d) in item (iv) of Section 14 and contended that there cannot be a straight-jacket formula for finding out whether  a particular Article was sold in the same form as was produced by the rolling mill.
Argument	<CITATION_520437>  15 S.T.C.
Argument	586. a Bench of <ORG> held that where pieces of rolled steel Sections are joined together by rivetting, they still retain the same form in which rolled steel Sections are directly produced by the rolling mills within the meaning of entry 4 in Schedule A A of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953 and that rivetted baling hoops which are nothing but pieces of rolled steel Sections joined together by rivetting, fall within that entry.
Argument	The learned Judges expressed that it is impossible to attempt to formulate a general test which must be applicable in all cases and it is a difficult question to decide as to when can an Article which is a rolled steel Section be said to be in the same form in which it is directly produced by the rolling mill,  18.
Argument	Reference was also made to <CITATION_1270021>  19 S.T.C.
Argument	24 (S.C.) where <ORG> had held that sugar in entry 47 of the Bombay Sales Tax A ct, 1959, included within its ambit all forms of sugar, that is to say, sugar of any shape or texture, colour or density and by whatever name it is called.
Argument	19.
Argument	It was also contended by the learned counsel that the object of the statute should be effectuated and that cannot be done if each sub-item in item (iv) is treated as an independent item for purpose of levying single point tax.
Argument	Reference is made to <CITATION_903306>  11 S.T.C.
Argument	827(S.C.) where <ORG> held that hydrogenated ground-nut oil (commonly called vanaspati) is "groundnut oil" within the meaning of Rule 18(2) of the Madras General Sales Tax (Turnover and Assessment) Rules, 1939.
Argument	<ORG> expressed :  That the hydrogenated oil sold by the appellants was out of groundnut not being in dispute, the only point is whether it continues to be oil even after hydrogenation.
Argument	Oil is a chemical compound of glycerine with fatty acids, or rather a glyceride of a mixture of fatty acids-principally oleic, linoleic, stearic and palmitic-the pro portion of the particular fat varying in the case of the oil from different oil-seeds and it remains a glyceride of fatty acids even after the hardening process, though the relative proportion of the different types of fatty acids undergoes a slight change.
RatioOfTheDecision	In its essential nature therefore no change has occurred and it remains an oil-a glyceride of fatty acids-that it was when it issued out of the press.
RatioOfTheDecision	20.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is urged that when <NAME>, which is produced from groundnut oil after chemical process, is treated as groundnut oil, rolled iron and steel Sections which are made out of iron and steel scrap into certain presentable and usable forms will not cease to be "iron and steel".
RatioOfTheDecision	According to the learned counsel this is a fortiori case, for reconversion is impossible in the case of <NAME> while it is possible in the case of "iron and steel".
RatioOfTheDecision	21.
Argument	The learned Assistant Government Pleader appearing on behalf of the <ORG>, however, contends, relying on the decisions in <CITATION_425275>  12 S.T.C.
Argument	590 and  <CITATION_883586>  20 S.T.C.
Argument	430 (S.C.) above referred to, that "iron and steel" plates and rods sold by the petitioners are commodities different from iron and steel scrap or ingots, that they are treated commercially different for purposes of taxation and that the <ORG> is entitled to levy on the first sales of the goods manufactured by the petitioners, notwithstanding the fact that scrap out of which they have been manufactured had suffered tax already.
Argument	He also contends that the words "that is to say" following "iron and steel" in entry (iv) of Section 14 of the Central Act cannot be said to be explanatory but that it should be construed as restrictive of the scope of the words "iron and steel".
Argument	Though the contention of the learned Assistant Government Pleader that there is a manufacturing process when iron and steel scraps are melted and converted into iron and steel plates and rounds may be correct in view of the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_883586>  20 S.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	430 (S.C.) the facts in these  cases as averred by the petitioners and not traversed by the <ORG> are different.
RatioOfTheDecision	The petitioners are said to have adopted merely a process by which different shape is given to the scrap which they have purchased by heating and beating them to shape.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is said that they do not melt the iron scrap to make it into a different form, but merely heat the scrap and beat them to required sizes and shapes.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question is whether this process can be said to be a manufacturing process.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are of the view that on the facts of these cases as averred by the petitioners the process adopted will come under the principle of the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_665168>  17 S.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	313 (S.C.) and not within the principle of the decision in <CITATION_883586>  20 S.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	430 (S.C.) However, we are not resting our decision solely on the fact that the process adopted by the petitioners is not a manufacturing process.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even assuming that the process adopted is a manufacturing process and the product sold by the petitioner  is a manufactured product, we are of the view that even in their manufactured state the goods did not cease to be "iron and steel" as defined in entry (iv) in Section 14 of the Central Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	A reading of the said entry as a whole shows that the statute wanted to treat all forms of iron and steel either as raw material or as a finished product from the rolling mill as "iron and steel" and the product as emerging from the various stages of manufacture cannot be treated different from "iron and steel".
RatioOfTheDecision	22.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Government Pleader places strong reliance on the case reported in <CITATION_425275>  12 S.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	590 and the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_883586>  20 S.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	430 (S.C.) and contends that the rolled iron and steel Articles are commercially different and that the <ORG> is entitled to bring them to tax notwithstanding the fact that the scrap out of which they have been made had been taxed already.
RatioOfTheDecision	In effect the <ORG> contends that it is entitled to treat each of the commodities mentioned in  the various sub-items in entry (iv) separately for the purpose of levying single point tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	As we had already noted, the decision in <CITATION_425275>  12 S.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	590 and <CITATION_883586>  20 S.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	430 (S.G.) were concerned with the validity of the purchase tax levied on the iron and steel scraps purchased for the purpose of rolling them into bars, plates and sheets and the question was whether they had been purchased for the purpose of manufacture for attracting the levy of purchase tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	In those cases the question of liability to sales tax on the sales of the manufactured product did not come up for consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our view the principle of the decision in <CITATION_665168>  17 S.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	313(S.C) has to apply as, in our opinion, even after manufacture the rolled iron and steel rounds, plates etc., continue to be "iron and steel" as defined in the said entry (iv).
Argument	The learned Government Pleader faintly contended that in the manufactured state the goods sought to be taxed in the petitioners' hands have cease d to be "iron and steel" as coming under entry (iv).
RatioOfTheDecision	But when pointed out that if such were the contention the manufactured goods have to be taxed at the multi-point, he had to give up that contention, for the <ORG> is contemplating to levy only single point tax on the first sale of the manufactured product even now and they did not treat the manufactured product as subject to multi-point tax.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even though after manufacture the goods are commercially different as has been held by <ORG> in <CITATION_883586>  20 S.T.C.
RatioOfTheDecision	430 (S.C.) still the goods, in our view, did not cease to be "iron and steel" and tax has to be levied only at a single point in the series of sales from the stage of raw material till it is sold in the same form as it had been produced by the rolling mills, that is, till the manufactured Articles had been converted into any other form of fabricated material.
Precedent	The learned Assistant Government Pleader also referred to the decision of <ORG> in <ORG> v. <NAME> <ORG>  21 S.T.C.
Precedent	17 (S.C.).
Precedent	There the word "manufacture" has been held to have various shades of meaning and in the context of sales tax legislation, if the goods to which some labour is applied remain essentially the same commercial Article, it cannot be said that the final product is the result of manufacture.
Precedent	This decision, in our view, supports the view we have expressed above that notwithstanding some work and labour are applied, the iron and steel scrap remained essentially the same and that it had not ceased to be iron and steel.
Precedent	23.
Precedent	The learned Government Pleader also referred to the decision in <CITATION_1032892>  23 S.T.C.
Precedent	288 particularly the dissenting view of <NAME>, J., that "the real test applicable to such cases is the test of possibility of substitution of the one for the other so far as consumers are concerned and if there is no such possibility, it would be a new commodity and would no longer be a form of the original Article and that corrugated iron sheet is not a form of iron  or steel but is an Article of iron or steel and is a distinct commodity covered by entry 80 of Schedule B to the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953."
Precedent	But it is found that the majority view was that corrugated iron sheets were merely iron in another shape and form, that it cannot be regarded as an Article or product manufactured or fabricated out of iron, that merely because iron is given the shape of sheet and is subject to corrugation for the purpose of giving it rigidity and increased stiffness so as to make it acceptable to a particular class of persons who might want to use it in the form of iron sheet for roofing and walling, it does not cease to be iron; and it merely assumes another form, namely, that of a wrinkled sheet, but it still continues to retain the essential character of iron.
Precedent	The majority was of the view that the sale of corrugated iron sheets was covered by entry 15 of Schedule B of the Bombay Sales Tax Act prior to its amendment in 1957 and not by the residuary entry 80 of that Schedule.
Precedent	On a cons ideration of the entire matter with reference to the decided cases on the point, we are of the view that the goods sold by the petitioners in these cases are "iron and steel" as defined in entry (iv) of Section 14 of the Central Act and that they cannot be taxed once over, if they had suffered tax in their raw or unmanufactured stage, that is, as iron and steel scrap.
Argument	The petitioners have alleged that the iron and steel scrap, which they have used for manufacturing iron and steel sheets, bars, plates etc., had been subjected to tax, but this has to be established before the concerned authorities.
RulingByPresentCourt	In view of the fact that the factual question whether the iron and steel scrap had suffered tax at the purchase stage has to be investigated, we have to dismiss the writ petitions after expressing our view on the legal question, giving liberty to the assessing authority to ascertain the actual factual position and to proceed with the assessment, if any, in accordance with law.
RulingByPresentCourt	The above writ petitions are therefore d ismissed.
