Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ.
Fact	1.
Fact	The question in this appeal is--whether an alienation by a, <NAME> of his office is one which can be recognized as legal ?
Fact	2.
Fact	First and second defendants, two brothers, acquired jointly in 1869 certain rights of performing puja.
Fact	in certain temples.
Fact	They are undivided, but they enjoyed this right severally, each, as is found, taking his turn of performance of the office in accordance with arrangements made by them.
Fact	3.
Fact	On the 12th October 1878 the first defendant sold his right to plaintiff,, who instituted the suit out of which this second appeal arises to enforce the right thus transferred to him, as, since the purchase, the defendants had prevented his enjoyment of it.
Fact	4.
Fact	<ORG> found in favour of plaintiff against the contention of the second defendant that the enjoyment of the office by his brother was joint, and that he had never enjoyed the specific right of seven and a half days puja which he had pretended to dispose of to plaintiff, and that the sa le was not binding on him.
Fact	5.
Fact	The appeal was on the ground that the sale was not completed, and that the first defendant had no right to sell a specific share of the property of an undivided family.
Argument	6.
Argument	The Subordinate Judge, however, dismissed the appeal.
Argument	He observed that it was admitted that puja-holders can dispose of their right, and that, as the defendants had admitted that the puja was not a conjoint worship, an arrangement for apportioning the joint right must necessarily have been made, and the evidence showed that the first seven and a half days had fallen to first defendant in the arrangement actually come to between him and second defendant.
Argument	7.
Fact	In second appeal, the point that the right claimed is the right of purchase of a religious office is for the first time taken.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the view we take of the case, it is not necessary to notice the other grounds of appeal.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
Fact	Although this objection to the suit is only now taken, we cannot avoid considering it, as it is one of great importance and goes to  the foundation of plaintiff's right of suit.
Fact	10.
Fact	We find that the question of the legality of the sale of religious offices has received considerable discussion in all <ORG>s.
Fact	11.
Fact	In <NAME> v. <NAME> 3 M.H.C.R.
Fact	380, a Karaima right in a pagoda was declared unsaleable.
Fact	In special Appeal 759 of 1876 <ORG> confirmed the decree of <ORG> refusing to recognize as legal the sale of the office of <NAME>.
Fact	12.
Fact	In <NAME> v. <NAME> 7 M.H.C.R.
Fact	32, it was held that the office of <NAME> in a temple could not be alienated when the alienation contemplated the introduction of a different ritual.
Fact	13.
Fact	The decision in Rajah of <NAME> v. <NAME> 7 M.H.C.R.
Fact	210 regards the sale of a religious trust as illegal.
Fact	<ORG> dismissed the appeal from this decision (I.L.R.
Fact	1 Mad.
Fact	235; S.C. L.R.
Fact	4 I.A.
Argument	76) on the ground that no custom which could qualify the general principle of law that such trusts were unsaleable had been established in the case, and that the c ase disclosed that the sale was for the pecuniary advantage of the trustee--a circumstance which would invalidate any such custom if it had been shown.
Argument	14.
Argument	In <NAME> v. Raw Chuiider Sen I.L.R.
Argument	2 Cal.
Argument	347 : S.C. L.R.
Argument	4 I.A.
Argument	58 there is a dictum by <ORG> that, although in the case of a family idol the consensus of the family might give the existing dedication another direction, this could not be done in the case of a public temple by the consensus of the trustees.
Argument	The foregoing cases are authorities for the proposition that the alienation of religious trusts and offices is generally illegal, though in some special circumstances it may be held valid.
Argument	An instance in which such an alienation has been upheld is afforded by <NAME> v. <NAME> I.L.R.
Fact	6 Bom.
Fact	298.
Precedent	The Judges in that case upheld an alienation of an hereditary office made in favour of a person standing in the line of succession and not disqualified for the performance of the office by personal unfitness.
Precedent	In Juggarnath Boy  <NAME> v. <NAME> 7 W.R. 266 the Judges refused to recognize the purchase in execution of a decree of an office which involved the performance of Hindu religious worship on the ground that the purchase might be made by Christians or Muhammadans or other persons whose status might altogether unfit them for the performance of the worship.
Precedent	15.
Argument	<CITATION_1567557> 5 B.L.R.
Argument	617 Mr. Justice <NAME> took the same view, and as Mr. Justice <NAME> observes in the Bombay case already referred to, it is obvious that equal objections must exist to unrestricted alienations of a private character.
Argument	In this latter case, the alienation was only allowed on the consideration that the office was heritable and the alienee, who was an heir, fitted to perform his duties.
Argument	It is urged that, in the present case, the alienee is of the same caste and sect as the family of the alienor, and that no objection as to fitness to perform the worship exists in his case.
RatioOfTheDecision	But we are not disposed to hold that this of itself will v alidate such an alienation.
RatioOfTheDecision	To hold so would tend to public mischief in inducing needy incumbents of hereditary religious offices who desired to sell them to give a dishonest recognition to qualifications which, in fact, were not the qualifications demanded by the nature of the office.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not necessary for us to determine in this case whether we should be disposed to go the length of what is decided in <NAME> v. Pranshankar I.L.R.
RatioOfTheDecision	6 Bom.
RatioOfTheDecision	298 that a purchase by a person standing in the line of heirs or otherwise qualified should be upheld.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is sufficient to say that an alienation to a person not in the line of heirs, though otherwise qualified for the performance of the office, is not one which should be excepted from the general rule against the alienation of hereditary religious trusts and offices.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
RulingByPresentCourt	We must reverse the decrees of the Courts below and dismiss plaintiff's suit with costs.
