Fact	REPORTABLE IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION CIVIL APPEAL NO.
Fact	OF 2008 (Arising out of S.L.P.
Fact	(C) No.3670 of 2005) Komalam Amma .....Appellant Vs. <NAME> <NAME> and <NAME>.
Fact	.....Respondents JUDGMENT  Dr. <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	Leave granted.
Fact	2.
Fact	Challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a learned Single Judge of <ORG> dismissing the second appeal filed in terms of Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (in short `the Code').
Fact	The second appeal was filed by the appellant, who was defendant No.1 in O.S.
Fact	No.426 of 1986 on the file of learned first <ORG>, Thiruananthapuram.
Fact	She and the present respondent Nos.
Fact	2 and 3 were the defendants and respondent No.1 was the plaintiff, who is the <NAME> of the appellant and <NAME> of respondent Nos.
Fact	2 and 3.
Fact	The Suit was one for declaration of title in respect of Plaint-A Schedule Property where the defendants were residing and for recovery of possession with mesne profits.
Fact	3.
Fact	The  <ORG> as well as the first appellate court concurrently decreed the suit finding title over the plaint-A Schedule property with the plaintiff-<NAME>.
Fact	They held that Plaint-A Schedule property was purchased by him under Exh.A-1 (sale deed) utilising his own funds and the funds for the acquisition of the property were not provided by the present appellant- wife.
Fact	The concurrent decrees passed by the courts below were assailed before <ORG>.
Fact	4.
Argument	Stand of the appellant and the present respondent nos.2 and 3 was that being the wife of the plaintiff, the present appellant is entitled to reside in the matrimonial home situated in the plaint schedule property.
Argument	It was also pointed out that she had already obtained a charged decree for maintenance over the schedule property as per the decree in OS No.139 of 1977.
Argument	It was, therefore, her stand that the decree passed in the present case will result in conflicting decrees defeating the statutory charge under Section 39 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882  (in short `the TP Act ').
Argument	5.
Argument	<ORG> was of the view that even if the appellant had obtained a decree for maintenance against the <NAME>, the decree passed in the case for recovery of possession does not in any way, defeat the right of the wife to enforce the charge.
Argument	Section 39 of the T.P.
Argument	Act will have operation only if the charged property is transferred in which case, the transferee who is not a bona-fide transferee for value without notice will be liable for the charge.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> further held that in view of the factual setting in the case when the relationship between the <NAME> and the wife is estranged, the wife cannot still claim a right of residence in the matrimonial home so as to resist a decree for possession.
RulingByLowerCourt	Therefore, the second appeal was dismissed.
RulingByLowerCourt	6.
RulingByLowerCourt	Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the view expressed by <ORG> runs counter to the decision of this <ORG> in <ORG> (Dead) and <NAME>.
Precedent	Vs. <NAME> (Dead) and Ors.
Precedent	(1995 (6) SCC 88).
Precedent	7.
Precedent	Learned coun sel for respondent No.1, on the other hand, supported the judgment of <ORG>.
Precedent	8.
Precedent	In <NAME> case (supra), this <ORG> was considering the question whether maintenance encompasses a provision for residence.
Precedent	The case was considered in the light of Section 14(1) of The Hindu Succession Act, 1956 (in short `the Act').
Precedent	9.
Precedent	Maintenance, as we see it, necessarily must encompass a provision for residence.
Precedent	Maintenance is given so that the lady can live in the manner, more or less, to which she was accustomed.
Precedent	The concept of maintenance must, therefore, include provision for food and clothing and the like and take into account the basic need of a roof over the head.
Precedent	Provision for residence may be made either by giving a lump sum in money, or property in lieu thereof.
Precedent	It may also be made by providing, for the course of the lady`s life, a residence and money for other necessary expenditure.
Precedent	Where provision is made in this manner, by giving a life interest in property for the purposes of residence, that p rovision is made in lieu of a pre-existing right to maintenance and the Hindu lady acquires far more than the vestige of title which is deemed sufficient to attract Section 14 (1).
Precedent	10.
Precedent	Mulla's Hindu Law (Sixteenth Edition) sets out the position in law prior to the Act.
Precedent	The Manager of a joint Mitakshara family is under a legal obligation to maintain all male members of the family, their wives and their children.
Precedent	On the death of any one of the male members he is bound to maintain his widow and his children.
Precedent	The obligation to maintain these persons arises from the fact that the Manager is in possession of the family property (para 543).
Precedent	An heir is legally bound to provide, out of the estate which descends to him, maintenance for those persons whom the late proprietor was legally or morally bound to maintain (para 544).
Precedent	A wife is entitled to be maintained by her <NAME>, whether he possesses property or not.
Precedent	When a man with his eyes open marries a girl accustomed to a certain style of living, he undertakes the o bligation of maintaining her in that style (para 554).
Precedent	A widow who does not succeed to the estate of her <NAME> as his heir is entitled to maintenance out of his separate property as well as out of property in which he was a co-parcener at the time of his death (para  559).
Precedent	A Hindu widow is, in the absence of special circumstances, entitled to reside in the family dwelling house in which she lived with her <NAME> (para 562).
Precedent	The maintenance to be allowed to a widow should be such an amount as will enable her to live consistently with her position as a widow, with the same degree of comfort and reasonable luxury as she had in her <NAME>'s house, unless there are circumstances which affect, one way or the other, her mode of living there.
Precedent	In determining the amount of maintenance the <ORG> should have regard, inter alia, to the provision and status of the deceased <NAME> and of the widow and the reasonable wants of the widow, including not only the ordinary expenses of living, but what she might reasonably ex pend for religious and other duties incidental to her station in life (para 566).
Precedent	Where an undivided family consists of two or more males, related as <NAME> and son or otherwise, and one of them dies leaving a widow, she is entitled to reside in the family dwelling house in which she lived with her <NAME>.
Precedent	If the house is sold by the surviving co- parceners without necessity, the sale does not affect her right, and the purchaser cannot evict her until another suitable residence is found for her (para 573).
Precedent	A widow who is entitled to maintenance may sue, inter alia, for a charge on a specific portion of her <NAME>`s estate for her maintenance and residence (para 579).
Precedent	11.
Precedent	The Hindu Adoption & Maintenance Act , 1959, was enacted to amend and codify the law relating to adoptions and maintenance among Hindus, and it defines maintenance in Section 3 (d) to include "(1) In all cases, provision for food, clothing, residence, education and medical attendance and treatment."
Precedent	12.
Precedent	In B.P.
Precedent	Achala Anand Vs. <ORG> i <NAME> and Anr.
Precedent	(2005 (2) SCALE 105) it was observed as follows:   "Having said so generally, we may now deal with the right of a wife to reside in the matrimonial home under personal laws.
Precedent	In the factual context of the present case, we are confining ourselves to dealing with the personal law as applicable to Hindus as the parties are so.
Precedent	A Hindu wife is entitled to be maintained by her <NAME>.
Precedent	She is entitled to remain under his roof and protection.
Precedent	She is also entitled to separate residence if by reason of the <NAME>'s conduct or by his refusal to maintain her in his own place of residence or for other just cause she is compelled to live apart from him.
Precedent	Right to residence is a part and parcel of wife's right to maintenance.
Precedent	The right to maintenance cannot be defeated by the <NAME> executing a will to defeat such a right.
Precedent	(See: <NAME>, Principles of Hindu Law, Vol.
Precedent	I, 18th Ed.
Precedent	2001, paras 554 and 555) The right has come to be statutorily recognized with the enactment of the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance  Act , 1956.
Precedent	Section 18 of the Act provides for maintenance of wife.
Precedent	Maintenance has been so defined in clause (b) of Section 3 of the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act , 1956 as to include therein provision for residence amongst other things.
Precedent	For the purpose of maintenance the term 'wife' includes a divorced wife."
Precedent	13.
RulingByLowerCourt	These aspects have not been considered by <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	It will be appropriate for <ORG> to consider the issues by re-hearing the appeal in the light of what has been stated in <NAME> and <NAME> cases (supra).
RulingByLowerCourt	14.
RulingByLowerCourt	We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits by remitting the matter to <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	15.
RulingByLowerCourt	The appeal is disposed off accordingly without any order as to costs.
RulingByLowerCourt	..........................................J.
RulingByLowerCourt	(Dr. <NAME>) ..........................................J.
RulingByLowerCourt	(Dr. <NAME>) New Delhi:  November 14, 2008
