Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This is a plaintiff's appeal from an order of the Civil Judge, <NAME>,.
Fact	reversing an order of <NAME> by which a final decree under Order 84, Rule 5, Civil P.C., was directed to be prepared.
Fact	The facts necessary for the purposes of this appeal may be stated as follows : On 2lst November 1936 a preliminary decree in a suit brought on the basis of a mortgage was passed in the following terms:  It is ordered that the claim of the plaintiff for the recovery of Rs.
Fact	2140 with pendente lite and future interest at the rate of Rs.
Fact	3/4/- per cent, per annum, be decreed.
Fact	The parties will receive from and pay to each other costs in proportion to their success and failure.
Fact	Let a mortgage-decree for sale (digrikefalati) be prepared.
Fact	The defendant shall pay the decretal amount by half yearly instalments of Rs.
Fact	310 each.
Fact	The first instalment will fall due on 15th December 1936, the second instalment on 15th June 1937 and in future the defendant shall continue to pay accordingly.
Fact	In case  of non-payment of any three instalments, the entire unpaid decretal amount shall be payable in a lump sum ba surat adam aday kisi teen eqsat ke baqiya kul motaleba digri ek musht wajib-ul-ada hoga.
Fact	2.
Fact	On 13th January 1941 the plaintiff filed an application for preparation of a final decree under Order 34, Rule 5, Civil P.O.
Fact	This application was opposed by the defendant on the ground of limitation.
Fact	Thereupon the plaintiff filed another application praying that in case the Court was of opinion that the application in respect of the entire decretal amount was barred by time, a final decree in respect of instalments which were within time might be prepared.
RulingByLowerCourt	The learned Munsif before whom the applications came on for hearing reached the conclusion that the application for preparation of the final decree was within time so far as the instalments which fell due v within three years prior to the date of the presentation of the application were concerned, and he ordered preparation of the final decree accordingly.
RulingByLowerCourt	Fr om this order, the defendant went up in appeal and the learned Civil Judge, as stated above, reversed the order of the learned <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	The learned Civil Judge came to the conclusion that under the terms of the decree no option was conferred upon the plaintiff and consequently the entire decretal amount fell due on 16th December 1937 on which date the right to make an application for preparation of the final decree accrued to the plaintiff.
RulingByLowerCourt	He further held that the application for preparation of the final decree, having been brought more than three years after that date, was barred by time.
Fact	From this decision the plaintiff has brought the present appeal.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our judgment, the order passed by the learned Civil Judge is correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a matter of agreement that Article 181 , Limitation Act , applies to applications of final decrees.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under that Article the limitation provided is three years from the date when the right to apply accrues.
Argument	There can be no doubt that, according to the terms of the preliminary decree,  on default of payment of the first three instalments, the plaintiff acquired a right to make an application for the preparation of a final decree, and, if limitation is computed from the date upon which the third instalment fell due, the application which has given rise to the present appeal would be beyond time.
Argument	In the decree, we have no words like "the creditor would be entitled to" or "the creditor would have the power to recover," and the expression "that the entire decretal amount shall be payable in a lump sum" is imperative and is inconsistent with any option having been given to the plaintiff.
Argument	3.
Argument	There is a current of authority in support of the view that the expression "when the right to apply accrues" means "when the, right to apply first accrues" and this view is reinforced by the observations of their Lordships of <ORG> made in Lesa v. Din Mt.
Argument	Gulab Kunwar ('32) 19 A.I.R.
Argument	1932 P.C.
Argument	207 at p. 919, where their Lordships remarked that:  If in the Indian cases the question were 'when did  the mortgagee's cause of action arise?'
RatioOfTheDecision	i.e., when did he first become entitled to sue for the relief claimed by his suit - their Lordships think that there might be much to be said in support of the Allahabad decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the terminus a quo be the date when the cause of action arises, there is no doubt that it will be the date on which the plaintiff would first become entitled to sue.
Precedent	As was observed by Sir <NAME> in <CITATION_504870> ('34) 21 A.I.R.
Precedent	1934 All.
Precedent	534 at p. 777.  the expression 'the right to apply accrued' is more emphatic than the expression 'the cause of action arises'.
Precedent	and if the date when the cause of action arises is to be considered the first date when one becomes entitled to sue for the relief claimed by him, then the date when he becomes entitled to apply is certainly the date when the right to apply by way of enforcing the default clause accrued to the mortgagee when on the first occasion there was a default....  5.
Precedent	It may be that in a particular case the plaintiff may not  make an application on the first occasion that he became entitled to make one, but that would not prevent the limitation running against him, which depends upon the time of accrual of the right to make an application.
RatioOfTheDecision	The limitation does not depend upon the forbearance on the part of the plaintiff to exercise his right but upon the date of the accrual of that right and, therefore, it cannot remain suspended by reason of any omission or forbearance on the part of the plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reference may be made to the case in <CITATION_1250363> ('15) 2 A.I.R.
RatioOfTheDecision	1915 All.
Precedent	336, where in the case of an application for preparation of a final decree, a Bench of this Court consisting of Sir <NAME> and <NAME> held that limitation should be computed from the time when the right to apply first accrued.
Precedent	This case was followed by a Bench of <ORG> in <NAME> v. <NAME> ('30) 17 A.I.R.
Precedent	1930 Cal.
Precedent	329, in which the learned Judge observed that it is settled that in a case to which Artic le 181 ,.
Precedent	Limitation Act , is applicable, the time runs from the date the right to apply first accrues.
Precedent	6.
Precedent	Reference may also be made to the case in <NAME> v. <NAME> ('28) 15 A.I.R.
Precedent	1928 Cal.
Precedent	646 where <NAME> in discussing the principles on which Article 181 is based made the following observations:  In Article 181 the <ORG> makes provision not for one definite type of cases but for an unknown number of oases of all kinds.
Precedent	The provision which it makes is specific as regards the period of limitation, but as regards the terminus a quo it is content to state in general language and quite simply the fundamental principle that for the purposes of any particular application time is to run from the moment at which the applicant first had the right to make it.
Precedent	7.
Precedent	Learned Counsel for the appellant placed strong reliance on the <ORG> case in <CITATION_1684724> ('27) 14 A.I.R.
Precedent	1927 P.C.
Precedent	146.
Precedent	In our judgment, the decision of their Lordships turned upon the nature of the decree in  question in that case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their Lordships did not lay down any general principles.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as the application for recovery of instalments was concerned, Article 182(7 ), Limitation Act , was applied, a provision with which we are not concerned in the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as the claim for delivery of property was concerned, the decision turned upon the construction of the decree itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	No reference was made to Article 181 , Limitation Act , and we do not feel oppressed by that decision and are of opinion that it has no application to the facts of the present case.
Fact	Reliance was also placed on behalf of the appellant on the case in <NAME> v. <NAME> ('38) 25 A.I.R.
Fact	1938 Oudh 112.
RatioOfTheDecision	That case is distinguishable upon the ground that there the preliminary decree conferred an option on the decree-holder to obtain a final decree on default of any one instalment when the entire amount unpaid became payable.
Precedent	The learned Judges of <ORG> observed that the ultimate question in the case before them was really  one of the construction of the decree and they felt bound to apply the principle of the ruling in <CITATION_1684724> ('27) 14 A.I.R.
Precedent	1927 P.C.
Precedent	146 to the facts of the ease before them.
Precedent	If there is anything in the judgment of <ORG> which may be said to be in conflict with the view that the expression "when the right to apply accrued" means "when the right to apply first accrues," we dissent from that decision.
Precedent	The case in <CITATION_565089> ('32) 19 A.I.R.
Precedent	1932 P.C.
Precedent	207 as has been observed by Sir <NAME> in In the Goods of Punchard (1872) L.R.
Precedent	2 P. 369 does not lay down any general principle.
Precedent	The decision in that case turned upon Article 132 , Limitation Act , and on the peculiar relationship between the mortgagor and the mortgagee.
Precedent	The Full Bench case in <CITATION_20740455> .
Precedent	('28) 15 A.I.R.
Precedent	1928 All.
Precedent	629 was not a case of an application for preparation of a final decree and the terms of the decree in that case were essentially different from the terms of the decree in the case before us.
Precedent	That  ruling does not affect the question before us, viz., whether in a case where there is no option contained in the decree, the limitation under Article 181 for an application for preparation of a final decree runs from the date when the plaintiff becomes first entitled to make an application.
Precedent	8.
RulingByPresentCourt	In our judgment, the order passed by the learned Civil Judge is correct and we, accordingly, dismiss this appeal with costs.
