Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: <NAME> & OTHERS DATE OF JUDGMENT30/08/1983 BENCH: <NAME>, A.
Fact	(J) BENCH: <NAME>, A.
Fact	(J) FAZALALI, SYED MURTAZA THAKKAR, M.P.
Fact	(J) CITATION: 1983 AIR 1219 1983 SCR (3) 762 1983 SCC (4) 231 1983 SCALE (2)175 CITATOR INFO : R 1985 SC 628 (54) RF 1991 SC 792 (4) RF 1992 SC 604 (106) ACT: Dowry Prohibition Act , 1961- Sections 2 and 4 scope of- Demand for payment of money made during marriage ceremonies- Demand pressed later- Whether constitutes an offence under section 4 .
Fact	<ORG>-Inherent power-When should be exercised.
Fact	HEADNOTE: In a complaint filed before the Judicial Magistrate the appellant (bride's <NAME>) alleged that during the marriage ceremonies the first respondent (bride groom's <NAME>) had demanded a large sum of money to be paid to him as dowry and threatened that if the appellant did not pay the sum he would stop further marriage ceremonies, that even after his daughter.
Fact	had gone to the first respondent's house after the marriag e the respondent's continued to demand payment of money and that this constituted an offence under section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961.
Fact	After verifying the complaint the Judicial Magistrate issued processes to the respondents and sent summons is to the United States where the respondents were, Allowing the respondent's application impugning the order of the Magistrate issuing summonses, <ORG> held that since there was no allegation in the complaint that the respondents first demanded the dowry and the appellant had agreed to pay it and the respondents thereafter demanded it again, no offence under section 4 was made out.
Fact	In the appeal to this Court it was contended on- behalf of the appellant that a mere demand for dowry, even if there was no consent to comply with that demand, would constitute an offence under section 4 of the Act.
RulingByLowerCourt	Allowing the appeal, ^ HELD: From a reading of section 2 of the Act, it would appear that consent to comply with demand for payment of any property or valuable s ecurities as 'consideration' for the marriage would alone make the property or valuable security given or agreed to be given directly or indirectly "dowry" 763 within the meaning of the Act.
Fact	But having regard to the dominant purpose of the Act the entries definition of "dowry" should not be imported into section 4 .
RatioOfTheDecision	The dictionary meaning of the word 'bride' is a woman about to marry or has just been married and a `bridegroom' is a man who is about to marry or has just been married.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the literal-meaning of these words is given to the words bride and bridegroom used in the section any property or valuable security demanded and contented to be given before the woman had become a bride or the man had become a bridegroom may not be dowry.
RatioOfTheDecision	The avowed object of the Act being to eradicate the evil of demanding dowry, a liberal construction has to be given to the word "dowry" to mean any property or valuable security which if consented to be given on demand would be dowry within the meaning of section 2 .
RatioOfTheDecision	There is,  therefore, no warrant for the respondents' contention that initial demand for dowry would not constitute an offence but that it would be an offence only when the demand was made again after the party on whom it was made had agreed to comply with it.
Precedent	[771 B-H; 722 <CITATION_206125> , 1981 Crl.
Precedent	L.J.
Precedent	1116 approved.
RatioOfTheDecision	The inherent power of <ORG> must be exercised sparingly and with circumspection when there is reason to believe that the process of law is being misused to harass a citizen.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this case <ORG> should have refused to involve its inherent power at the threshold to quash the proceedings.
Fact	[772 B-C] JUDGMENT:  CAIMINAL APPELLATE JISRISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No 494 of 1982.
Fact	Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 22nd December, 1981 of <ORG> in Criminal Appln.
Fact	No.
Fact	283 of 1981.
Fact	<NAME>.
Fact	<NAME>, <NAME> and Mrs. <NAME> for the Appellant.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME> for the Respondent.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME> for the St ate of Maharashtra.
Fact	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, J.
Fact	This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of <ORG> of <ORG> in Criminal Application No.
Fact	283 of 1981, quashing the proceedings in Criminal Case No.
Fact	1634 of 1980 on the file of the Judicial Magistrate, First Class (Anti Corruption), Pune.
Fact	The application in <ORG> was filed by the respondents in this appeal, who are the two accused in that criminal case, for quashing the criminal proceedings as well as the order of the Judicial Magistrate, issuing processes against them in that case.
Fact	The appellant <NAME> was the first respondent while State of Maharashtra was the second respondent in the application before <ORG>.
Fact	The first respondent <NAME> is the <NAME> of the second respondent <NAME>.
Fact	There was a proposal to get the appellant's daughter <NAME>, a Science Graduate, married to the second respondent, a double Graduate in Engineer ing, working in the United States.
Fact	After <NAME> and the second respondent approved each other there was an engagement ceremony on 12.6.1978 at Pune and the marriage was performed at that place on 19.6.1979 after the first respondent came from the United States in May 1979.
Fact	According to the appellant's complaint, when the marriage ceremonies were in progress on 19.6.1979, both the respondents demanded a cash of Rs.
Fact	50,000 from the appellant in the presence of respectable persons under the pretext that the money was required for the transport of <NAME> and the second respondents to the United States.
Fact	The respondent told the appellant that if he did not comply with that demand by way of dowry further ceremonies monies would not be completed.
Fact	Some respectable persons who were present at that time persuade the respondents to complete the marriage ceremonies and formalities and thereafter the marriage ceremonies were over.
Fact	The second respondent alone went to the United States in July 1979 as the passport and visa fo r <NAME> had to be arranged which was done some time later while <NAME> was staying in the house of the first respondent.
Fact	<NAME> was not sent to the United States and the respondents continued to persist in their demand for the money when she was staying in the first respondent's house.
Fact	The appellant filed a complaint before <ORG> First Class on 5.6.1980 against both the respondents, alleging that they had committed an offence under s. 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 by demanding the sum of Rs.
Fact	50,000 as mentioned above.
Fact	This was done after the appellant had obtained the necessary sanction required by the proviso to s 4 of the Act.
Fact	The Judicial Magistrate verified the complaint and issued processes to the respondents and sent summonses to the United States where the first respondent was staying with the second respondent at that time.
Fact	765  The respondents challenged the Magistrate's order issuing summonses to them by filing their application in <ORG>.
Fact	The learned Single Judge  before whom the application originally came up for consideration referred to <ORG>.
Argument	The contention of the learned counsel for the respondents before <ORG> was that even if the allegations made in the appellant's complaints were true no offence under s. 4 of the Act is disclosed, whereas for the appellant it was contended before <ORG> that the aforesaid demand for Rs.
Argument	50,000 would constitute an offence under s. 4 .
RulingByLowerCourt	Reading the definition of "dowry" given in s. 2 of the Act into s. 4 , the learned judges held that for bringing a case under s. 4 of the Act, there must be a demand for dowry as such, that is, for any property agreed to be given as consideration for the marriage, and that as there is no allegation in the complaint that the appellant had agreed to pay the sum of Rs.
Fact	50,000 and the respondents thereafter demanded the same no offence under s. 4 of the Act is disclosed in the complaint.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that view the learned judges allowed the respondent's application and quashed the pr oceedings in the appellants's complaint and the Magistrate's order issuing the processes to the respondents.
Fact	Hence this appeal by special leave.
Argument	The question for consideration is whether the allegation made in the appellant's complaint that there was a demand by the respondents when the ceremonies of the marriage of <NAME> with the second respondent were in progress, for the payment of Rs.
Argument	50,000 to be made by the appellant on pain of the marriage ceremonies not being completed if the demand was not complied with under the pretext that the said amount was required for the passage of <NAME> and the second respondent to the United States discloses an offence under s. 4 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would be necessary to extract the following relevant ss.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 to 5 and 8 of the Act for easy reference in order to consider the question:  "2.
Statute	In this Act, "dowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly-  (a) by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage; or   (b ) by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person, to either party to the marriage or to any other person; at or before or after the marriage as consideration for the marriage of the said parties, but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) applies.
Statute	Explanation I-For the removel of doubts it is hereby declared that any presents made at the time of a marriage to either party to the marriage in the form of cash, ornaments, clothes or other articles, shall not be deemed to be dowry within the meaning of this section, unless they are made as consideration for the marriage of the said parties.
Statute	Explanation II- The expression "valuable security" has the same meaning as in section 30 of the Indian Penal Code.
Statute	3.
Statute	If any person after the commencement of this Act, gives or takes or abets the giving or taking of dowry, he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees , or with both.
Statute	4.
Statute	If any person after the commencement of this Act, demands, directly or indirectly, from the parents or guardian of a bride or bridegroom, as the case may be, any dowry, he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six moths, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both;  Provided that no court shall take cognizance of any offence under this section except with the previous sanction of <ORG> or of such officer as <ORG> may, by general or special order, specify in this behalf.
RulingByLowerCourt	5.
RulingByLowerCourt	Any agreement for the giving or taking of dowry shall be void.
RulingByLowerCourt	767  6.
RulingByLowerCourt	Every offence under this Act shall be non- cognizable, bailable and non-compoundable."
Fact	According to the appellant's complaint, when the marriage of his daughter <NAME> and the second respondent, the son of the first respondent, was in progress on 19.6.1979, both the respondents demanded from him cash of Rs.
Argument	50, 000 in the presence of respectable persons under the pretext that  the amount was required for the passage or transport of <NAME> and the second respondent to the United States where the second respondent was employed at that time and they told him that if he did dot comply with their demand by way of dowry further ceremonies in the marriage would not be completed.
Argument	It is further alleged that some respectable persons who were present at that time persuaded the respondents to complete the marriage ceremonies and formalities and thereafter the marriage ceremonies were completed and that subsequently the second respondent went to the United States in July 1979 alone because the passport and visa of <NAME> had to be arranged which was done some time later while <NAME> was staying in the house of the first respondent, and the respondents continued to persist in their demand for the money when <NAME> was saying in the house of the first respondent without being sent to the United States.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, Senior Advocate, appearing for the respondents invited our attention to the decisi on of a learned Single Judge of <ORG> in <CITATION_964020> (1) and also of another Single Judge of <ORG> in <CITATION_405352> (2) and submitted that the demand for Rs.
Argument	50,000 alleged in the complaint would not constitute an offence under s. 4 of the Act as there is no allegation in tile complaint that the appellant consented to pay the amount and that without consent to the payment the sum of Rs.
Precedent	50,000 alleged to have been demanded does not become dowry within the meaning of s. 2 of the Act which defines "dowry" as meaning "any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly-  (a) by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage; or  (b) by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person, to either party to the marriage or to any other person;  768  at or before or after the marriage as consideration for the marriage of the said parties, but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the Mus lim Personal Law (shariat) applies."
Precedent	Section 2 contains two explanations with which we are not concerned in this case.
Precedent	In <ORG> decision the question for consideration was what constituted "consideration" for marriage within the meaning of s. 2 of the Act, and <NAME>, J, has observed:  "Thus the definition of the word "consideration" leads to the conclusion that the property or valuable security should be demanded or given whether in the past, present or future for bringing out solemnization of marriage.
Precedent	After the marriage, giving a property or valuable security by the parents of the bride cannot constitute a "consideration" for the marriage unless it was agreed at the time of or before the marriage that such property or valuable security would be given in future."
Precedent	The complaint i n that case did not spell out that the articles mentioned in the same were given after the marriage as a result of some agreement for the purpose of the marriage.
RulingByLowerCourt	The allegations in the complaint jndicated that th ose articles were given after the marriage with a view to have smooth sailing and continuance of good material relations.
RulingByLowerCourt	The learned Judge, therefore, held that the articles given in those circumstances did not constitute dowry within the meaning of s. 2 of the Act.
RulingByLowerCourt	We think that the learned judge is right in holding so, and that it is desirable that even such a demand should be prohibited and made punishable in law.
Fact	We are concerned in the present case with a complaint in which it has been alleged that the demand for the sum of Rs.
Fact	50,000 as dowry was made when the marriage ceremonies between the appellant's daughter <NAME> and the second respondent were in progress, by both the respondents.
Fact	under the pretext that it was required for the passage of the parties to the marriage to the United States with a threat that if the amount was not paid the marriage ceremonies would not be completed and that there was demand for payment of the amount even after the marriage ceremonies were over when <NAME> was staying i n the house of the first respondent after the second respondent went away alone to the United States because the, passport and visa for <NAME> had not been obtained by then.
Precedent	The decision of even the Patna High Court relied upon by Mr. <NAME> relates only to what constitutes "consideration" for the marriage within the meaning of s 2 of the Act.
Precedent	On the other hand, Dr; <NAME>, Senior Advocate, appearing for the appellant invited our attention to a decision of <ORG> of <ORG> in <CITATION_1676959> (1) and submitted that a mere demand for money as dowry for completing the marriage ceremonies on pain of not completing the ceremonies if the money was not given is sufficient to constitute an offence under s. 4 of the Act even though there was no consent on the part of the appellant to comply with that demand.
Precedent	What appeared from the record of the case out of which the decision of <ORG> arose, was that the accused-petitioner filed an application on 6.10.1978 raising a conte ntion that <ORG>, Dadar, Bombay had no jurisdiction to entertain and try the case because the accused and the complainant were residing 'outside the jurisdiction of that Court.
Precedent	A contention was also raised that the complaint was barred by limitation and was, therefore, liable to be dismissed.
Fact	However, during the arguments in <ORG> it was conceded by the learned counsel for the accused-petitioner that the complaint was filed within the period prescribed.
Fact	Therefore, the only question that arose for consideration by the learned Judges of <ORG> was the one relating to the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Magistrate, Dadar, Bombay to entertain and inquire into the complaint.
Fact	However, the learned Judges have observed in the judgment after extracting s. 4 of the Act that "what is made punishable under that provision is the demand itself, whether direct or indirect, from the parents of a bride or bridegroom".
Fact	The learned Judges have further observed thus:-  "On  the averments made in the complaint the demand is made by the accused by writing a letter from Wadala, Bombay-31.
Fact	This demand was made through his elder brother who is the son-in-law of the complainant and resides at Agartala.
Fact	From Agartala the said letter of demand was forwarded by the son-in-law of the complainant to Andheri, Bombay where the complainant is residing.
Fact	Therefore, the demand by accused was not made at Agartala.
Fact	He had only used the good offices of his elder brother to forward the letter.
Fact	Instead of writing a direct letter to complainant demanding dowry, the demand was made through the elder brother who is residing at Agartala.
Fact	Still the demand is by accused and is made from Wadala at Bombay.
Fact	The demand became complete when the complainant received the letter at Andheri, Bombay.
Fact	Hence the dowry was demanded at Bombay.
Fact	The offence was partly committed at Wadala, Bombay, from there the dowry was demanded.
Fact	It was also committed at Andheri, Bombay, where the complainant received the demand letter.
Fact	It is further alleged by the complainant in the complaint that the marriage of <NAME> which was almost settled, could not take place due to the demand of dowry made by the accused.
Fact	This consequential result or consequence of the demand also took place at Bombay.
Fact	Wadala is within the local jurisdiction of Metropolitan Magistrate, Dadar.
Fact	Letter of demand was actually sent from Wadala, Bombay.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence, in any case it can safely be said that offence as alleged is partly committed at Wadala also.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though a contention was raised before the trial court that neither accused nor complainant are residing within the jurisdic- tion of <ORG>, now it is an admitted position that accused resides at Wadala.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if it is held that offence became complete when complainant received letter at Andheri, Bombay, still it will be triable by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether it is Dadar or <ORG> will not make any difference.
RatioOfTheDecision	On tho other hand we are told that <ORG> is nearer to the residence of accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	The point raised is t oo technical and no prejudice will be caused to the accused nor on that count it could be said that trial is vitiated; or will result in failure of justice.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence there is no substance in this contention".
Precedent	It appears from a reading of this judgment that it was either not disputed before the learned Judges or that it was presumed that a mere demand for property as consideration for the marriage taking place would constitute an offence under s. 4 of the Act.
Precedent	The Dowry Prohibition Act , 1961 is intended to prohibit the giving or taking of dowry, and <ORG> has made every offence under the Act non-compoundable by s. 8 of the Act.
Precedent	By s. 5 it has been enacted that any agreement for the giving or taking of dowry shall be void.
Precedent	Section 3 makes abetment of the giving or taking of dowry an offence.
Precedent	No doubt, according to s. 2 of the Act "dowry" is any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or after the marriage as consideration for the marriage but do es not include dowar or mahr in the case of person to whom the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) appear applies.
Precedent	It would appear from s. 2 that consent to comply with the demand for any property as consideration for the marriage would alone make the property or valuable security given or agreed to be given directly or indirectly, "dowry" within the meaning of the Act.
Precedent	But having regard to the dominant object of the Act which is to stemp out the practice of demanding dowry in any shape or form either before or after the marriage, we are of the opinion that the entire definition of word "dowry" should not be imported into s. 4 which lays down that "if any person after the commencement of this Act, demands directly or indirectly from the parents or guardian of a bride or bridegroom, as the case may be, any dowry, he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both".
Precedent	According to <ORG>, 1962 edn.
Precedent	bride mea ns a woman who has just been married or it about to be married, and bridegroom means a man who has just been married or is about to be married.
Precedent	If we give this strict meaning of a bride or a bridegroom to the word bride or bridegroom used in s. 4 of the Act property or valuable security demanded and consented to be given prior to the time when the woman had become a bride or the man had become a bridegroom, may not be "dowry" within the meaning of the Act, We are of the opinion that having regard to the object of the Act a liberal construction has to be given to the word "dowry" used in s. 4 of the Act to mean that any property or valuable security which if consented to be given on the demand being made would become dowry within the meaning of s. 2 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are also of the opinion that the object of s. 4 of the Act is to discourage the very demand for property or valuable security as consideration for a marriage between the parties thereto.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 4 prohibits the demand for 'giving' property or valuabl e security which demand, if satisfied, would constitute an offence under s. 3 read with s. 2 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no warrant for taking the view that the initial demand for giving of property or valuable security would not constitute an offence and that an offence would take place only when the demand was made again after the party on whom the demand was made agreed to comply with it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Magistrate was, therefore, right in proceeding on the basis that the allegations in the complaint prima facie constitute an offence under s. 4 of the Act and issuing processes to the respondents.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG>, we cannot refrain from observing, might well have refused to invoke its inherent powers at the very threshold in order to quash the proceedings, for these powers are meant to be exercised sparingly and with circumspection when there is reason to believe that the process of law is being misused to harass a citizen.
RatioOfTheDecision	The present was not such a case.
RatioOfTheDecision	We find that the complaint had been filed after obtaining the p revious sanction of <ORG> or of such officer as <ORG> may by general or special order specify in this behalf as required by the proviso to s. 4 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> who appeared for the second respondent, State of Maharashtra, was not in a position to tell us about what the exact stand of <ORG> in this appeal is as to whether it supports or opposes the contention of the appellant that the allegation made in the complaint constitutes an offence under s. 4 of the Act.
RulingByPresentCourt	For the reasons stated above, we allow the appeal and direct the learned Judicial Magistrate, First Class to take further proceedings on the complaint and dispose of the case according to law.
Precedent	P.B.R.
Precedent	Appeal allowed.
