Fact	PETITIONER: <ORG>.
Fact	Vs. RESPONDENT: STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH DATE OF JUDGMENT07/03/1988 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> (J) BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> (J) RANGNATHAN, S. CITATION: 1988 AIR 1166 1988 SCR (3) 103 1988 SCC (3) 82 JT 1988 (2) 95 1988 SCALE (1)721 CITATOR INFO : RF 1988 SC2018 (10) ACT: Arbitration Act , 1940-Whether a contractor can claim extra cost and compensation towards rise in prices of material and labour on account of delay on the part of other party to contract in discharge of its obligations and allotment of work under the contract and invoke arbitration clause in contract and ask for a reference to arbitrator under section 20-Of .
Fact	HEADNOTE: % The petitioner in this application under Article 136 of the Constitution entered into a contract with the respondent <ORG> for construction work.
Fact	The contract could not be completed within the stipulated time because of alleged gross delay on the part of the <ORG> in allotment of work and discharge of its obligations under the  contract.
Fact	The petitioner incurred unforeseen expenditure and approached <NAME> for payment.
Fact	Upon refusal of <NAME> to pay and also to refer the matter to arbitration, the petitioner moved the District Judge under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, ('the Act') for the filing of the arbitration agreement and for reference of the dispute to arbitration.
Fact	The District Judge directed the respondent State to file the agreement, and made a reference for specific question to the arbitration.
Fact	<ORG> dismissed the State's appeal against the order of the District Judge.
Fact	Thereafter, an arbitrator was appointed, who made an award partly allowing the petitioner's claim.
Fact	The award was filed in the Court of the District judge, who made the award a rule of the court.
Fact	The respondent appealed to <ORG>.
Fact	<ORG> remanded the matter to the District Judge for a fresh decision.
Fact	The District Judge accepted the respondent's objections and set aside the award.
Fact	The High C <ORG> dismissed the appeal of the petitioner.
Fact	The petitioner then moved this C<ORG> for relief by this petition for special leave.
RulingByLowerCourt	Dismissing the petition, the C<ORG>, ^ HELD: The District Judge rightly found that the question regarding extra-cost was a general question and not a specific legal question and the decision of the arbitrator was not final.
Argument	The arbitrator 104 misconducted himself in allowing the claim without deciding the objection of the <ORG>.
Argument	In view of the specific clauses, the petitioner was not legally entitled to claim for extra- cost.
Argument	The decision of this C<ORG> in <CITATION_318186> ,  2 SCR 48 was of no avail on this point.
Argument	If no specific question of law is referred, the decision of the arbitrator on that question is not final however much it may be within his jurisdiction and indeed essential for him to decide the question incidentally.
Argument	The arbitrator is not a conciliator and cannot ignore the law or mis-apply it in order to do what he thinks is just and reasonable.
Argument	The arbitrator is a <ORG> nal selected by the parties to decide their disputes according to law and so he is bound to follow and apply the law, and if he does not, he can be set right by the <ORG> provided his error appears on the face of the award.
Argument	In this case, the contractor having contracted, could not go back to the agreement simply because it did not suit him to abide by it.
Argument	[111C-F] The petitioner had argued that since specific issues had been framed and referred by the District Judge to the arbitrator, the same had been answered by a non-speaking award and there was no mistake of law apparent on the face of the record, and the District Judge had erred in setting aside the award by looking into the terms of the contract which neither formed part of the award nor were appended to it.
Argument	The <ORG> did not agree.
Argument	This being a general question, the District Judge rightly examined the question and found that the petitioner was not entitled to claim for extra cost in view of the terms of the contract, and the arbitrator misdirected hims elf by not considering this objection of the <ORG> before giving the award.
RatioOfTheDecision	[112B-C] The limits of the jurisdiction of the <ORG> to challenge the award are well-settled.
RatioOfTheDecision	While considering the objection under section 30 of the Act, the <ORG> does not act as an appellate <ORG>; it can only interfere with the award if the arbitrator misconducts himself or the proceedings or if the award has been made after the issue of an order by the <ORG> superseding the arbitration or if the arbitration proceedings have become invalid under section 35(c) of the Act, or the award has been improperly procured or is otherwise invalid.
RatioOfTheDecision	If, a specific question is submitted to the arbitrator and he answers it, the fact that the answer involves an erroneous decision in point of law, does not make the award bad on its face so as to permit it being set aside.
Argument	[112E-F; 1l3A] The High <ORG> was right that the District Judge was entitled to examine the contract in order to find out the legality of the claim of the petitioner regarding ex tra cost towards rise in prices of material and 105 labour.
Argument	Clauses 2.16 and 2.4 stipulated that the contractor had to complete the work inspite of rise in prices of materials and also rise in labour charges at the rates stipulated in the contract.
Argument	There was a clear finding of the arbitrator that the contract was not rendered ineffective in terms of section 56 of the Contract Act due to the abnormal rise in prices of materials and labour.
Argument	This being so and the contractor having completed the work, it was not open to him to claim extra cost towards rise in prices of material and labour.
Argument	The arbitrator misdirected himself in not deciding this specific objection raised by the <ORG> regarding the legality of the extra claims of the petitioner.
Argument	It has to be born in mind that there were specific clauses which barred consideration of extra claims in the event of price escalation.
Argument	[113D-F; 114B] The award was properly set aside by the District Judge and <ORG> was right in the view it took and there was no gr ound to interfere.
Fact	[113G] <CITATION_318186> ,  2 SCR 48; <CITATION_1989300> ,  2 SCR 793; <CITATION_1873752> , A.I.R.
Fact	1973 S.C. 1338; <CITATION_525017> ., A.I.R.
Fact	1923 P.C.
Fact	66; Re.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME>,  2 K.B.
Fact	32; <ORG> v. <ORG>,  AC 395; <CITATION_263196> ,  1 SCR 633; <NAME>.
Fact	v. <NAME>, 54 I.A.
Fact	427; <CITATION_1505546> ,  A.C. 592; <CITATION_931195> ,  3 SCR 282 and <CITATION_196949> ., 2 S.C.C.
Fact	680, referred to.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.
Fact	13180 of 1985.
Fact	From the Judgment and order dated 17.4.1985 of <ORG> in Misc.
Fact	F.A.
Fact	No.
Fact	252 of 1981.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME> for the Petitioner.
Fact	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME> This is an application under Article 136 of the Constitution for leave to appeal to this Court from the judgment and order of <ORG> dated 17th April, 1985.
Fact	In order to appreciate the points involved, it is neces-  106   sary to state that the petitioner entered into a contract dated 31st March, 1970 with respondent, State of Madhya Pradesh for the construction of Rip Rap on right bund of Masonary Dam of Tawa Project.
Fact	The contract could not be completed within the stipulated time because of alleged gross delay on the part of the State, according to the petitioner, in allotment of work and discharge of its obligations under the contract.
Fact	The petitioner incurred unforeseen expenditure, it is claimed, to the tune of Rs.5,29,812 and approached the Superintending Engineer for payment.
Fact	Upon refusal of the Superintending Engineer to pay the claim and his refusal to refer the matter to arbitration, the petitioner moved the learned District Judge under section 20 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 (hereinafter called 'the Act') for filing of the arbitration agreement and for reference of the disputes to the arbitration.
Fact	On 24th April, 1976 the learned District Judge allowed the petitioner's application and directed the respondent, State of  Madhya Pradesh to file the agreement in Court and made a reference for specific question to the arbitration.
Fact	<ORG> on 22nd September, 1976 dismissed the State's appeal against the order of the District Judge.
Fact	Thereafter in March, 1977 Retired Engineer-in-Chief, <NAME> was appointed arbitrator.
Fact	There was an award dated 29th October, 1978 on all the issues referred, partly allowing the petitioner's claim.
Fact	The award was filed in the Court of the District Judge and the respondent filed objections to the award under sections 30 and 33 of the Act and the petitioner filed replies.
Fact	The District Judge made the award a rule of the Court.
Fact	The respondent appealed to <ORG>.
Fact	<ORG> remanded the matter to the District Judge for fresh decision.
Fact	The District Judge accepted the objections and set aside the award.
Fact	<ORG> by the impugned judgment dismissed the appeal of the petitioner.
Fact	It is from this judgment of <ORG> that the petitioner seeks leave to appeal to this Court.
RulingByLowerCourt	As  mentioned hereinbefore by the impugned judgment and order of <ORG> the award has been set aside.
RulingByLowerCourt	The agreement contained an arbitration clause.
RulingByLowerCourt	The work, however, could not be completed within the stipulated time, the period of contract was extended.
Argument	The contractor attributed delay on the part of <ORG> whereas <ORG> blamed the contractor.
Argument	This was a disputed question.
Argument	While the work was in progress, the contractor was required to meet extra expenditure on labour charges and materials due to revision in wage scales and escalation of prices.
Argument	Alterations and substitutions of works also led to extra expenses.
Argument	There were certain items for which rates were not provided but all the same work had to be done.
Argument	The contractor therefore, advanced claims for compensation.
Argument	<NAME> dismissed the claims on the ground that the claims were barred under clause 3.3.15.
Argument	He also held that some of the claims were not covered by the contract.
Argument	The contractor sought to invoke  the arbitration clause but the <ORG> sought to oppose on the ground that the dispute attracting the arbitration clause had not arisen.
Argument	It was contended that the claim was barred by clause 3.3.
Argument	15 and it had not been made within the time.
Argument	It was contended further that there was only one contract and there being no separate agreement for extension of period of the contract the rate as provided in the original contract alone was permissible.
Argument	As there was no separate contract and no reference under clause 3.3.29 could be made for the enhanced period beyond the period of the contract.
Statute	Relevant clauses of the contract were as follow:  "3.3.15 Clause 15.
Statute	Time limit for unforseen claims: Under no circumstances whatever shall the contractor be entitled to any compensation from <ORG> on any account unless the contractor shall have submitted claim in writing.
Statute	to the Engineer-in-Charge within one month of the cause of such claim occurring.
Statute	3.3.29 Clause 29.
Statute	Decision of Superintending Engineer, to be final except w here otherwise specified in the contract.
Statute	The decision of <NAME> of the <ORG> for the time being shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties to the contract upon all question relating to the meaning of the specification, design drawings and instructions hereinbefore mentioned and as to the quality of workmanship or material used on the work or as to any other question, claim, right matter or thing whatsoever, in any way arising out of or relating to the contract, designs, drawings, specifications, estimates, instructions, orders, or those conditions or otherwise concerning the work of execution or failure to execute the same, whether arising during the progress of the work, or after the completion or abandonment thereof.
Statute	Provided that if the contractor is dissatisfied with the final decision of <NAME> in respect of any matter, he may within 28 days after receiving notice of such decision give notice in writing to <NAME> requiring that  the matter may be referred to the arbitration and furnishing detailed particulars of the dispute or difference specifying clearly the point at issue.
Statute	If the contractor fails to give such notice within the period of 28 days as stipulated above the decision of the Superintending Engineer already given shall be conclusive and binding on the contractor.
Statute	In case an arbitration is to be held it shall be effected by an arbitrator to be appointed by <ORG> whose decision shall be final, conclusive and binding.
Statute	If the work under the contract has not been completed when a dispute is referred to arbitration work shall continue during arbitration proceedings if it is reasonably possible and no payment due to contractor should be with held on account of arbitration proceedings unless it is required by the arbitrator 3.3.32 Clause 32.
Statute	Action where no specification:  In case of any class of work for which there is no such specification as is mentioned in Rules, such work shall be carried out in accordance wi th the specification approved by Superintending Engineer/Chief Engineer, or application to works in the district and the event of there being no such specification, then in such case the work shall be carried out in all respect in accordance with the instructions and requirements of the Engineer-in-Charge.
Statute	3.3.33 Clause 33.
Statute	Definition of work:  The expression "works" or "work" where used in these conditions shall, unless there by something either in the subject or context repugnant to such construction be constructed and taken to mean the works by or by virtue of the contract contracted to be executed, whether temporary or permanent, and whether original, altered, substituted or additional.
RulingByLowerCourt	3.3.34 Clause 34.
RulingByLowerCourt	Claim for quantities entered in the tender or estimate:  109  Quantities shown in the tender are approximate and no claim shall be entertained or work executed being either more or less than those entered in the tender estimate."
RulingByLowerCourt	The learned single Judge as mentioned hereinbefore of <ORG> after  exhaustive discussion dismissed the appeal and upheld the order.
Fact	Being aggrieved the petitioner went up in appeal before <ORG> and <ORG> on consideration of the matter dismissed the appeal.
Fact	<ORG> considered the following issues raised before the District Judge:  1.
Fact	Whether the contractor had incurred extra costs towards wetting and washing of stones used in masonry of <ORG>?
Argument	2.
Argument	Was the petitioner entitled to payment of this extra costs of Rs.
Argument	1.20,355?
Argument	3.
Argument	Whether the petitioner contractor had to incur extra cost of material and labour to the tune of Rs.
Fact	14,72,456 within the contract period for executing work assigned to it?
Fact	4.
Fact	Whether the contractor had incurred extra cost of Rs.8,84,336 for the work beyond the contract period due to unforeseen circumstances?
Fact	5.
Fact	Whether the petitioner's claim on both the counts was in whole or in part of it was barred by time in terms of clause 3.3.
Fact	15?
Argument	6.
Fact	Whether the contract was rendered ineffective in terms o f section 56 of the Contract Act due to unexpected change in the market rate of material and labour charges?
Fact	7.
Fact	Was the claim not entertainable in accordance with the terms' of the contract under clause 3.3.32, 3.3.33 and 3.3.34 during the extended period of contract?
Fact	8.
Fact	Was the work delayed because of the presence of shale-zone in the foundation which factor was not made known to the contract?
Fact	9.
Fact	Whether the contractor was entitled to extra costs of damages for the delay caused on account of shale-zone?
Fact	<ORG> came to the findings as follows:  1.
Fact	The contractor did incur expenditure on wetting and washing of stones in Masonry Group-II, Tawa Masonry Dam but this was according to agreement.
Argument	2.
Argument	The petitioner is not entitled to the payment of the extra costs of Rs.1,20,355.
Argument	3.
Argument	The petitioner/contractor did incur an extra cost of Rs.14,72,456 within the contract period for executing the assigned work.
Argument	4.
Argument	The petitioner/contractor did incur an extra cost of Rs.6,81,796 for the work done beyond t he contract period due to unforseen circumstances.
Argument	5.
Argument	The petitioner is entitled to the claim to the extent of Rs.2,65,000 against Issue No.
Argument	3 and Rs.6,81,796 against Issue No.
Argument	4 above and the same is not barred by time in terms of clause 3.3.15.
Argument	6.
Argument	The contract was not rendered ineffective in terms of section 56 of the Contract Act due to abnormal rise in the market rates of materials and labour.
Argument	7.
RatioOfTheDecision	The claim under reference cannot be ruled out merely be cause of the provisions of clause 3.3.32, 3.3.33 and 3.3.34.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	Yes, the work was delaved due to the presence of shale-zone in the foundations, a factor which was unforeseen and was not made known to the contractor.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contractor is entitled to claim extra cost due to the delay caused on account of the shale-zone in foundations.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> felt that the four factual issues decided by the District Judge were more or less by the agreement and therefore, <ORG> did not deal with these.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as three legal issues which were referr ed to him, namely, whether the claim was barred under clause 3.3.
RatioOfTheDecision	15, the contract was rendered ineffective in terms of  section 56 of the Contract Act due to abnormal rise in the market rate of material and labour and the claim not entertainable under clause 3.3.32, 3.3.33 and 3.3.34.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> considered whether the appellant was entitled to extra cost towards rise in prices of materials and labour within and beyond the contract period.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> noted that the learned District Judge held that since three legal issues were specifically referred to the arbitrator and therefore his decision had become final and binding on the parties and cannot be re-agitated before the Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Regarding the remaining issues, the <ORG> had taken objection while opposing the application under section 20 that the appellant was not entitled to extra cost for material and labour in terms of the contract but the Court directed that this matter had to be agitated before the arbitrator and the application under section  20 could not be dismissed on the ground that the claim would not ultimately succeed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The District Judge found and in our opinion rightly that the question regarding extra-cost was a general question and not a specific legal question and the decision of the arbitrator was not final one.
RatioOfTheDecision	The arbitrator misconducted himself in allowing the claim without deciding the objection of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the specific clauses, the appellant was not legally entitled to claim for extra cost.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision of this Court in <CITATION_318186> ,  2 SCR -18 is of no avail on this point.
RatioOfTheDecision	If no specific question of law is referred, the decision of the arbitrator on that question is not final however much it may be within his jurisdiction and indeed essential for him to decide the question incidentally.
RatioOfTheDecision	The arbitrator is not a conciliator and cannot ignore the law or misapply it in order to do what he thinks is just and reasonable.
RatioOfTheDecision	The arbitrator is a tribunal selected by the parties to decide their disputes according to law an d so is bound to follow and apply the law, and if he does not he can be set right by the <ORG> provided his error appears on the face of the award.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this case, the contractor having contracted, he cannot go back to the agreement simply because he does not suit him to abide by it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision of this <ORG> in <CITATION_1989300> ,  2 SCR 793 may be examined.
RatioOfTheDecision	There it was observed that a contract is not frustrated merely because the circumstances in which the contract was made, altered.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Contract Act does not enable a party to a contract to ignore the express covenants thereof, and to claim payment of consideration for performance of the contract at rates different from the stipulated rates, on some vague plea of equity.
RatioOfTheDecision	The parties to an executory contract are often faced, in the course of carrying it out, with a turn of event which they did not at all anticipate, a wholly abnormal rise or fall in prices, a sudden depreciation of currency, an unexpected obstacle to execution, or the like.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no gene ral liberty reserved to the courts to absolve a party from liability to perform his part of the contract merely because on account of an uncontemplated turn of events, the performance of the contract may become onerous.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was argued on behalf of the appellant that since specific issues 13 were framed and referred by the District Judge to the arbitrator, the same had been answered by a non-speaking award, there is no mistake of law apparent on the face of record and the District Judge erred in setting aside the award by looking into the terms of the contract which it was submitted, neither formed part of the award nor appended to it.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to agree.
RatioOfTheDecision	This being a general question, in our opinion, the District Judge rightly examined the question and found that the appellant was not entitled to claim for extra cost in view of the terms of the contract and the arbitrator misdirected himself by not considering this objection of the <ORG> before giving the award.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1873752> , A.I.R.
RatioOfTheDecision	1973 S.C. 133 8, it was held that where an arbitrator is called upon to decide the effect of the agreement, he has really to decide a question of law, i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of interpreting the agreement, and hence, his decision is not open to challenge.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was also a decision against a reasoned award but since the reference was to a specific question of law, the decision of the arbitrator, it was held, was not open to challenge.
RatioOfTheDecision	The limits of the jurisdiction of the <ORG> to challenge the award are well- settled.
Precedent	While considering objection under section 30 of the Act, the <ORG> does not act as an appellate court, it can only interfere with the award if the arbitrator misconducts himself or the proceedings or if the award has been made after the issue of an order by the <ORG> superseding the arbitration or if the arbitration proceedings have become invalid under section 35(c) of the Act or the award has been improperly procured or is otherwise invalid.
Precedent	<ORG> in <CITATION_525017> ., A.I.R.
Precedent	1923 P.C.
Precedent	66 has laid down the e xtent of the jurisdiction of the <ORG> to set aside an award on the ground of an error in making the award.
Precedent	It has been reiterated that the award of the arbitrator may be set aside on the ground of an error on the face thereof only when in the award or in any document incorporated with it as for instance, a note appended by the arbitrator, stating the reason for his decision, there is found some legal proposition which is the basis of the award and which is erroneous.
Precedent	See also in this connection Re.
Precedent	<NAME> & Duveen,  2 K.B.
Precedent	32 and <ORG> v. <ORG>,  A.C. 395, if how ever, a specific question is submitted to the arbitrator and he answers it, the fact that the answer involves an erroneous decision in point of law, does not make the award bad on its face so as to permit of it being set aside.
Precedent	See also the observations of this <ORG> in <CITATION_263196> ,  1 SCR 633.
Precedent	It is well settled that the contract remained part of the award.
Precedent	<ORG> in <NAME>.
Precedent	v. <NAME> l, 54 I.A.
Precedent	427 considered an award in which the arbitrator recited a contract made between the parties and the dispute arising under it.
Precedent	It was contended that the contract was incorporated in the award by its reference and so the award disclosed an error of law in construing the terms of the contract.
Precedent	But that contention was negatived.
Precedent	It was held that the reference to the contract in the award was to earmark the disputes between the parties and was not incorporated into the award.
Precedent	In <ORG> v. <ORG>,  A.C., 592, it was held that if an award referred to the terms of a clause in the contract, the clause though not set out in full must be taken to be incorporated in it.
Precedent	This <ORG> has reiterated in <CITATION_931195> , 119711 3 SCR 282 that mere reference to the contract in the award is not to be held as incorporating it.
Argument	In the aforesaid light, we are of the opinion, the High <ORG> was right that the District Judge was entitled to examine the contract in order to find out the legality of the cla im of the appellant regarding extra cost towards rise in prices of material and labour.
Argument	As was pointed out by the learned District Judge clauses 2.16 and 2.4 stipulated that the contractor had to complete the work inspite of rise in prices of materials and also rise in labour charges at the rates stipulated in the contract.
Argument	There was a clear finding of the arbitrator that the contract was not rendered ineffective in terms of section 56 of the Act due to abnormal rise in prices of material and labour.
Argument	This being so and the contractor having completed the work, it was not open to him to claim extra cost towards rise in prices of material and labour.
Argument	The arbitrator misconducted himself in not deciding this specific objection raised by the <ORG> regarding the legality of extra claim of the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that view of the matter, the award, in our opinion, was properly set aside by the learned District Judge and <ORG> was right in not interfering with it.
Precedent	The question about specific reference on a questi on of law was examined by this Court recently in the case of <CITATION_196949> ,  2 S.C.C.
Precedent	680.
Precedent	There it was observed that if the agreed fact situation, on the basis of which agreement was entered into, ceases to exist, the agreement to that extent would become otiose.
Precedent	If rate initially quoted by the contractor became irrelevant due to subsequent price escalation, it was held in that case that contractor's claim for compensation for the .
RatioOfTheDecision	excess expenditure incurred due to the price rise could not be turned down on ground of absence of price escalation clause in that regard in the contract.
RatioOfTheDecision	Agreement as a whole has to be read.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reliance was placed very heavily on this decision on behalf of the appellant before us..
RatioOfTheDecision	It has to be borne in mind that in the instant case there are specific clauses referred to hereinbefore which barred consideration of extra claims in the event of price escalation.
RatioOfTheDecision	That was not so in <ORG> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	That made all the difference.
RatioOfTheDecision	The basis of bargain between the parties  in both these two cases were entirely different.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the aforesaid view of the matter we are of the opinion that <ORG> was right in the view it took and there is no ground to interfere.
RulingByPresentCourt	The petition for special leave fails and is accordingly dismissed.
Precedent	S.L.
RulingByPresentCourt	Petition dismissed.
