Fact	ORDER <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This revision has been filed under Article 227 of the Constitution India for striking off the suit in O.S.No.
Fact	288 of 2004 from the file of the District Munsif, Valliyur, on the ground that the suit is not maintainable.
Fact	2.
Fact	The respondents 1 & 2 filed the above suit for an interim injunction, restraining the third respondent from alienating the suit property till the sale agreement is subsisting and restraining the petitioner from commissioning the wind energy electrical generator.
Fact	Pending suit, respondents 1 and 2 prayed for an interim injunction, restraining the petitioner from commissioning the Wind Mill mentioned above.
Fact	The Court below gave an interim injunction only with regard to operation of the wind generator.
Fact	Against this the petitioner herein has filed this revision without filing an appeal which is there remedy against an order passed in an application under Order 39, Rules 1 & 2 and 151 of the Civil Procedure Code.
Argument	3.
Argument	The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner w ould submit that though there is an appeal remedy, the petitioner have not availed of it because the suit itself is an abuse of process of law and must be struck off from the file.
Argument	According to the learned counsel, the basis on which the respondents 1 & 2 have filed the suit is the agreement referred to above and even in the; agreement it is clear that possession was not handed over to the respondents 1 and 2.
Argument	The pleadings also indicate that the third respondent with whom respondents 1 and 2 entered into an agreement were put in possession of the property.
Argument	The learned, counsel for the petitioner submitted that an agreement holder had no right to seek interim injunction and he was; barred under Section 41(h) of ha Specific Relief Act and therefore, suit must be struck off from the file.
Argument	He further submitted that if at all the respondents 1 and 2 had a remedy, it was to file a suit for specific performance.
Argument	4.
Argument	The learned counsel for the respondents 1 and 2 submitted that there is an another suit pending, in  which, an interim injunction has been obtained restraining the third respondent from alienating the property and for this reason, the respondents 1 and 2 could not file a suit for specific performance.
Argument	Further it is submitted that under the agreement, six months' time was given and therefore that was another reason why they could not file the, suit for specific performance.
Argument	The learned counsel admitted that respondents 1 and 2 were not in possession.
Argument	He submitted further that if interim injunction is not granted, the respondents 1 and 2 would suffer irreparable loss and hardship and would be left with no other remedy.
Argument	5.
Fact	The learned counsel for the respondents relied on the following judgments <NAME> and 4 Ors.
Fact	v. <NAME> and <ORG>., 2004 (1) L.W.
Fact	803, where this <ORG> refused to set aside an order refusing to reject the plaint on an application filed under Order 7, Rule 11, CPC.
Fact	That case arose in some what similar circumstances.
Fact	There also the agreement holder has filed the suit for permanent injunction.
Argument	It was contended by the defendants that in view of the bar contained in Section 41(h) of the Specific Relief Act, the plaint must be rejected.
Argument	The revision further was dismissed on the ground that the question whether Section 41(h) would apply cannot be decided at that stage.
Argument	6.
Argument	The learned counsel for the respondent also relied on <CITATION_1810048> , , where <ORG> of <ORG> held that a suit for permanent injunction by an agreement holder who is in possession of the property is not barred by Section 41(h) .
Argument	7.
Argument	Both the above cited decisions will not help the respondents, since in both the cases, the agreement holder was put in possession pursuant to the agreement.
Argument	In fact, in <ORG> judgment of <ORG> it has been held, that even though the plaintiffs plea for specific performance may be barred by Law of Limitation, they are entitled to continue in possession, since Section 53-A of the Transfer of Property it creates equity in his favour.
Precedent	In the judgment cited  supra <NAME> and 4 Ors.
Precedent	v. <NAME> and <NAME>., 2004 (1) L.W.
Precedent	803 also, the agreements holders were put in possession.
Argument	8.
Argument	The learned counsel for the petitioner relied on the decision <CITATION_402976> , , where this Court came to the conclusion that while considering the grant of temporary injunction, if the Court feels that prima facie the suit itself is not maintainable, since the decree for permanent injunction cannot be granted in view of the bar under Section 41(h) of the Specific Relief Act it cannot be said that the plaintiff has got a prima facie case.
Argument	9.
Argument	The learned counsel for the petitioner also relied on the judgment <CITATION_92967> ., , where <ORG> of <ORG> held that, the person who alleges that he has purchased a property under an agreement has to get his relief by filing a suit for specific performance and not by filing a suit for injunction and interim injunction cannot be granted.
Argument	10.
Argument	The Learned counsel also relied on the decision <CITATION_282538> .,  , where it was held that a suit for permanent injunction by a person, who claims to have an agreement in his favour is not maintainable.
Argument	11.
Argument	If the petitioner is aggrieved by the order passed under Order 39, Rules 1 and 2, there is an appeal remedy and he can avail, of it.
Argument	If the petitioner's; case is that the plaint should be rejected, even then, he has his remedy.
RatioOfTheDecision	But unless, the circumstances warrants and the abuse of process of law stares in the face, Article 227 cannot be invoked for striking of a case from the file.
RulingByPresentCourt	It is in these circumstances, the <ORG> is dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	It is open to the petitioner to raise his objections, in respect of the maintainability of the suit and the bar of Section 41(h) of the Specific Relief Act and since the dismissal of this <ORG> is not on merits, it shall not be held against the petitioner.
RulingByPresentCourt	When such objections are raised, it will be dealt with by the <ORG> in accordance with law.
