Fact	JUDGMENT P.K.
Fact	Bahri, J.
Fact	(1) Have heard the arguments for deciding this application seeking temporary injunction till the disposal of the suit.
Fact	Ad interim injunction order already stands granted In favor of the plaintiff vide order dated December 16,1987.
Fact	(2) The plaintiff is a proprietor of trade mark 'CEAT' registered under No.
Fact	204251 since August, 1961, in respect of pneumatic and solid tyres for vehicles.
Fact	This trade mark 'CEAT' has been in use in India since 1951 earlier by the predecessor-in-interest of the plaintiff and the registration of the said trade mark still subsists in favor of the plaintiff.
Fact	It is the case of the plaintiff that the trade mark/word 'CEAT' is a part of the plaintiff's company trading style and is also an invented word and the plaintiff has been selling huge quantities of tyres, tubes and other material under the trade mark 'CEAT' and the plaintiff commands good reputation and goodwill in the said name and the sale of such goods runs into crores of rupees in a /year and the goods  are also exported to various countries under the said trade mark 'CEAT' It was also pleaded that a huge amount has been incurred and is being incurred for carrying out advertisements in respect of the said trade mark 'CEAT' and thus, by reason of long and continuous and exclusive use the trade mark 'CEAT' is exclusively associated and identified with the plaintiff-company and its goods.
Fact	It was pleaded that according to the Memorandum of Association of the plaintiff-company, the plaintiff company is to carry on business of manufactures of and dealers in conveyor belts, transmission belting, fan belts, 'V belts, belting system and belts/belting of all types and kinds, hoses and coupling for materials handling and parts, components and accessories thereof.
Fact	In the month of May 1987, it was found that the defendants have brought out in the market fan belts and 'V belts, under the trade mark 'CEAT' and those are made from rubber/synthetic rubber.
Argument	It was alleged that the defendants by using the trade mark 'CEAT' fo r its fan belt and 'V belt has caused confusion and is likely to cause confusion amongst the customers that the goods being manufactured and sold by the defendants.in fact, belong to the plaintiff.
Argument	It was pleaded that the goods being manufactured by the defendants are of poor quality and the sale of those goods under the trade mark 'CEAT' is likely to adversely affect the business and reputation of the plaintiff.
Argument	It was pleaded that the defendants have fraudulently and dishonestly used the said trade mark in respect of fan belt and 'V belt being manufactured and marketed by the defendants with a view to get enriched illegally upon the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff.
Argument	(3) The defendants have contested that the suit pleading that the plaintiff has no cause of action as the plaintiff is not manufacturing and selling the 'V' belt and fan belt and the said goods are totally different -in nature and description from the goods being manufactured and sold by the plaintiff.
Argument	It was pleaded that the plaintiff' s goods fall in clause 21 of the IVth Trade and Merchandise Marks Rules whereas the goods of the defendants come within clause 7.
Argument	It was pleaded that the defendants have been using the said trade mark 'CEAT' for,ita'V' belts and fan belts since 1979 and that -there is no likelihood of any confusion being caused by selling the goods by the defendants by using the trade mark 'CEAT' in any manner to show that the goods belong to the plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	(4) An action for passing off is founded on desirability of preventing commercial immorality or dishonesty on the part of a trader who by using a particular mark, whether registered or unregistered, wants to falsely represent that his goods are the goods of someone else so that be can take unfair advantage of the reputation of that Other person in the market.
RatioOfTheDecision	The likelihood or probability of deception depends on a number of factors and is a question of fact in the circumstances of each case.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is obvious that if there is no link between two trades, or in other words, the  two trades are not closely correlated and the goods are not analogous, a conclusion may be reached in a particular case that the chances of deception are too remote to be taken notice of.
RatioOfTheDecision	(5) Counsel for the plaintiff has vehemently argued that the tyres of the plaintiff are sold in the same type of shops as are selling 'V' belts and fan belts.
RatioOfTheDecision	The tyres are used in vehicles and the fan belts are also used in vehicles whereas the 'V' belts are also used in machines which are used for re treading the tyres.
RatioOfTheDecision	so,it is vehemently argued that "the goods being manufactured and sold by the defendants are atleast analogous goods to the goods of the plaintiff and as the goods of the plaintiff and the fan belts and 'V' belts are being sold at the same type of shops, there is every likelihood for ordinary customers to treat the goods after defendants as those of the plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that the plaintiff Thus no registered trade mark 'CEAT' in respect of the fan belts and the 'V' belts but if it is an action for pas <NAME> off it is not necessary that the plaintiff must have registered trade mark.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed it is not disputed before me that the trade mark Cashier an invested word and a lot of reputation has been built up around the said trade mark in respect of the tyres.
RatioOfTheDecision	(6) Counsel for the defendants has, on the other hand, argued that the bb Its and fan be Ks being manufactured by the defendants cannot be tides analogous or allied goods in respect of the registered trade mark of thier plaintiff nmd there is no likelihood of any customer being misled by the be for india manufacturing and selling the said goods under the trade mark .
RulingByLowerCourt	Both the Colonel have placed reliance on a number of judgments in support of their to respective contentions.
RulingByLowerCourt	In my opinion, the plaintiff, <NAME>, has a Strong to se in view of the fact that fan belts and 'V' belts are being sold On that garnet shops from where the tyres are sold.
RulingByLowerCourt	The plaintiff is hold tang a bag goodwill and reputation in the trade mark 'CEAT' pertaining to tyres.
RulingByLowerCourt	Prima f ade, it is also clear that 'V' belts and fan belts are at least cognate or allotted goods to the tyres inasmuch as the fan belts and the tyres are used in the vehicles and 'V' belts are used for machines including machines mealy for re treading the tyres.
Fact	(7) The first case referred to by the learned Counsel for the plaintiff is <CITATION_1272979> .y.
Fact	<ORG>, Findhoven, Holland and another .
Fact	In the said case", the plaintiff was manufacturing and selling goods in engineering and electrical fields under the trade mark '<ORG>'.
Fact	The defendants started using the sain trade mark for their watches and clocks.
Fact	Although the plaintiff was not manufacturing watches, still the defendants were -restrained from using the trade mark '<ORG>' for their watches and clocks.
Fact	In the said case also, the trade mark of the plaintiff did not fall in the same class as the goods of the defendants.
Fact	Counsel for the plaintiff then referred to <ORG> and Another v. <ORG> (^973) R.P .C.
Fact	560.
Fact	Here the 'plaintiff was trading he the household gloves and plastics pants for babies.
Fact	The defendant started selling toilet tissues under the said trade mark.
Fact	The injunction was granted against the defendant.
Fact	It was held that it was the intention of the plaintiff to extend the field of their activities for manufacturing and selling the toilet The plaintiff was granted-injunction against the defendant.
Fact	Then he has deferred to "Players" Trade Mark (Registration) (1965) R.P.C.
Fact	363.
Fact	The plaintiff find applied 'for registration of the trade mark in respect of tobacco.
Fact	It was found that the applicant's goods and the opponent's goods were sold through the same channels.
Fact	It was held that the goods were not of the same description but the applicants use of the mark would likely to lead to confusion and the relief was revised to the opposite side.
Fact	Plaintiff's Counsel has placed reliance on a number of judgments but it is not necessary to refer to all of them because each case depends on peculiar facts but the  principles which have to be kept in view for deciding an application for grant of injunction in such like cases are very well recognised and they came to be considered by this <ORG> in <ORG> v. <ORG> 1990(2) Arbitration Law Reporter 91.
Fact	In the said case the plaintiff was manufacturing and selling chewing tobacco under the trade mark 'RAJANI'.
Fact	The defendant started marketing Pan Masala under the said trade mark.
Fact	The injunction was allowed.
Fact	The learned Judge has referred to almost all the judgments on the subject in order to decide this case.
Fact	It was found by the <ORG> that the two types of goods were being sold from the same shops and there was every likelihood of confusion being caused amongst the customers in considering the goods of the defendant as goods of the plaintiff.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> held that the goods are of cognate and allied nature in the sense that these are manufactured by the same manufacturers and pass through the same trade channel inasmuch as the whole sellers or ret ailers as found to be common and even the consuming public can be the same.
RulingByLowerCourt	(8) Reference was made to a judgment of this Court in <ORG> v. <NAME> 1985 Ptc 33, by the learned Counsel for the defendants but the said case is on a different aspect.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the said case the rectification application was dismissed.
Fact	The petitioner's goods were being sold under the trade mark 'Natraj' pertaining to pencils.
Fact	The respondent was selling the goods geometry boxes.
Fact	Counsel for the plaintiff has informed that an appeal against the said judgment is still pending for decision.
Fact	The present is not a case of seeking any rectification of registration.
Fact	The case of the plaintiff is based on an action of passing off.
Fact	Counsel for the defendants has cited <ORG> & other v. <ORG> .
Fact	In the said case, under the trade mark 'BATA', shoes, chappals and allied goods were being sold by the plaintiff and the defendant adopted the said mark in respect of lungis' and banker chiefs.
Fact	The C ourt held that the goods are different and the injunction was refused.
Fact	Counsel for the plaintiff has drawn my attention to the commentary in the book under the Trade Mark Act by <NAME> at page 427 wherein it is mentioned that this suit ultimately was decreed although interim injunction was refused.
Fact	This judgment was not considered as good law in <CITATION_150587> andothers .
Fact	In the said case the defendant had started using the trade mark 'Bata-foam'.
Fact	The trade mark 'BATA' was registered in respect of canvas, rubber, leather shoes, rubber footwear, rubber soles, rubber heels and leather soles etc.
Fact	The word 'Bata' was treated as a fancy name.
Fact	It was held that the plaintiff bad a cause of action for instituting the proceedings for passing .off and the fact that the plaintiff was not manufacturing or producing foam was not enough to hold that there could be no passing off action in respect of the user of the name 'Bata' to the products being marketed by the defendant.
Fact	Counsel for the defendants has cited  <ORG> v. <ORG> Tokyo, Japan (1966) 2 Dlt 143.
Fact	It is not necessary to deal with this case because this case was not dealing with the action of passing off.
Fact	Moreover, on facts the case is distinguishable.
Fact	The planintiff's trade mark was in respect of tyres and tubes for vehicle whereas the defendant wanted registration of the said trade mark in respect of cycle parts.
Fact	(9) Counsel for the defendants has made reference to <ORG> and <ORG>, 1957 Rpc 177.
Fact	An application was moved for getting the trade mark 'EXCBLLO' registered in respect of 'boots shoes and slippers'.
Fact	It was opposed by the other party who had registered the said mark in respect of 'stockings and socks'.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is true that after recording evidence in this case the finding was given that the two classes of goods, namely, 'boots, shoes and slippers' on the one band and 'stockings and socks' on the other are so completely different that the fact that members of public saw the two classes  of goods occupied for sale in the same shop and under similar marks would not be sufficient to raise a real tangible danger of confusion.
RulingByLowerCourt	The judgment was given in view of the facts which came out during the course of trial, it cannot be said that any general proposition of law has been laid down which could be of any assistance in deciding the present matter.
RulingByLowerCourt	As already discussed by me above, it would depend on facts, of each case in order to see whether there is possibility of confusion occurring or not by use of same trade mark in respect of goods of different nature and whether the said goods could be deemed to be cognate or allied goods or not.
RulingByLowerCourt	He has then made reference to <CITATION_1182504> .
RulingByLowerCourt	In the said case the question which arose for decision was whether the registration of trade mark 'SONY' for nail polish is likely to deceive or cause confusion in the minds of customers of cognate goods bearing the same mark.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Court observed that the goods are of different nature and the customers are also di fferent and thus, a common man would not be confused by purchasing the goods of registered trade mark 'SONY' in respect of nail polish treating the same being manufactured by the trade mark 'SONY' in respect of the electronic goods.
RulingByLowerCourt	The case is based on different facts and is not applicable to the facts of the present case.
Fact	lie has also cited <ORG>'s <CITATION_987635> .
Fact	in this case the plaintiff bad registered the trade mark Milkmaid in respect of the condensed milk.
Fact	The defendant wanted to have its registration for the biscuits and toffees.
Fact	The defendant was permitted to have its trade mark registered under the name '<ORG>' in respect of biscuit and toffees.
Fact	The Court gave the finding that where the defendants dealt in biscuits and toffees which were not produced by the plaintiffs and where the wrappers were printed with the wards '<ORG> action for passing off cannot be supported by the plaintiff who sold condensed milk under the trademark 'Milkmaid 'in tins or cans having dif ferent size, type and shape.
Fact	The case is based on peculiar facts of its nature.
Fact	Reference was made also to <ORG> (1957) Rpc 79.
Fact	In the said case, an application to register a mark 'Lifeguard' was sought in respect of milk and milk products.
Argument	The opposition was put in by proprietors of said mark saying that the said trade mark was being used by the opposite party in respect of Racketed tea.
Argument	It was held that both classes of goods are 'food' and in the retails sales end of the trade channels are often sold in the same shops over the same counters but the origin of the goods and the wholesale end of the trade channels are not the same and the marks although very similar are not identical and the finding was also given that tea and milk and milk products are not the goods of the same description.
Fact	Again the case is having facts of its own kind.
Precedent	Reference was also made to <CITATION_597646> and anothers Air 1940 Privy Council 86, by the learned Counsel for the defendants.
Precedent	In the said  case, the question which arose for decision was whether the smoking tobacco being manufactured under the one trade mark and chewing tobacco being manufactured under the same trade mark is likely to deceive the public or not 7 The <ORG> held that the vital element in such a case is probability of deception and this may depend on number of matters as well as the question of similarity of the marks or of the get up.
Precedent	The <ORG> held that there can obviously be no monopoly in the use of the trade mark.
Precedent	A manufacturer of cigarettes under an undoubted trade mark such as an animal, or any other device, cannot legally object to use of the identical marks oil, say, hats, or soap, for the simple reason that purchasers of any of the latter kinds of goods could not reasonably suppose, even if they were well acquainted with the mark as used on cigarettes, that its use on hats or soap denoted that these goods were manufactured or marketed by the cigarette manufacturer.
Precedent	It was also held in this case that a judge cannot prope rly decide except upon evidence as to the classes or kinds of goods which are protected by the appellants mark, or, to be more precise, on the question whether purchasers of chewing tobacco from the respondent in the packets and tins above described are likely to be missed into thinking that that article is manufactured or put upon the market by the appellants.
RatioOfTheDecision	So, on merits, the <ORG> has come to the conclusion that there was no evidence to show that any such confusion could take place although both the parties were using the same trade mark in respect of their goods.
RatioOfTheDecision	(10) Both the counsel have referred to a judgment in the case of <CITATION_1883538> .
RatioOfTheDecision	.
Argument	In the said case, the respondent had applied for registration of the mark 'Gluvita' used with reference to biscuits manufactured by him.
Argument	The appellant had been using the registered trade mark 'Glucovita' with reference to his glucose with vitamins and he had opposed the application of the other side.
Precedent	The Supreme <ORG> in para 20 had observed that it is true  that in both the above mentioned cases the two competing trade marks were absolutely identical.
Precedent	The absolute Identical of the two competing marks or their close resemblance is only one of the tests for determining the question of likelihood of deception or confusion.
Argument	It was emphasized that the trade connection between the different goods is another such test.
Argument	Ex hypothesi, this latter test applies only when the' goods are different and these tests are independent tests.
Argument	<ORG> observed that there is no reason why the test of trade connection between different goods should not apply.
Argument	The Court assumed that liquid glucose is used in the manufacture of biscuits with glucose and held that there is a trade connection between the glucose and biscuits and a likelihood of confusion or deception arising there from would appear from the fact stated by the appellant that it received from a tradesman an inquiry for biscuits manufactured by it under its mark 'Glucovita'.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> came to the conclusio n that thee commodities concerned in the present case are so connected as to make confusion or deception likely.
RatioOfTheDecision	This judgment applies to the facts of the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Here also the tyres being manufactured by the plaintiff are from rubber or synthetic rubber and so also the fan belts and 'V' belts being manufactured by the defendants and thus, prima facie a trade connection is established in respect of these goods and an ordinary customer is likely to be confused or deceived while buying the goods manufactured by the defendant thinking that the said goods are in fact manufactured by the plaintiff.
Fact	(11) Counsel for the defendants also made reference to <CITATION_1333219> .
Fact	In the said case, <ORG> held that there was no likelihood of confusion or deception because the respondent's goods were confined to contraceptives for use by women which could only be used with medical assistance while the appellant's contraceptives were essentially for men.
Fact	However, it appears that the judgment is based on th e finding given that both the parties had concurrent user of the trade mark In respect of their respective goods.
Fact	In the case of <NAME> v. Deputy Registrar T & M. 1979 Rlr 526, the <ORG> found a trade connection between the vegetable oil used by one party V under the trade name of '<ORG>' and the hair removing soap containing the oil.
Fact	The <ORG> found that the buying public will think that <ORG> are the makers of the hair removing soap which actually is being manufactured by the opposite party.
Fact	So, the trade mark '<ORG>' was not allowed to be registered.
Fact	Like in this case '<ORG>' was said to be invented word and so b the word 'CEAT in the present case.
Fact	In <ORG> and another v. <ORG> and <ORG> 15 Rpc 105, the trade mark 'KODAK.'
Fact	was registered in respect of cameras and was sought to be used by the opposite side in cycles.
Fact	The trade connection was said to exist between the goods as even b icycles could be fitted with the cameras.
RulingByLowerCourt	Apparently the cycles and the cameras are totally different goods, still it was held that the possibility of confusion was there.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the case of <ORG> v. <ORG> 16 Rpc 12, the party was having the trade name '<ORG>' registered for pneumatic tyres for cycles and other accessories such as pumps, inflators, etc.
RulingByLowerCourt	whereas '<ORG>' had become identified with the ^ goods of the other party who dealt in oils and lubricants for cycles and other cycle accessories.
RulingByLowerCourt	It was held that there was a trade connection between the two types of goods and necessary injunction was granted.
Precedent	Reference may be made to <ORG>, (1978)1 Delhi 667.
Fact	The respondent in this case had registered the trade mark 'TELERAD' In respect of radio receiving sets and components parts.
Fact	The appellant get registered the same trade mark in.
Fact	respect of domestic electrical appliances.
Fact	<ORG> of this Court  held that there is a real tangible danger of confusion if the trade mark of the appellant is continued to remain on the <ORG> as it was found that many electrical goods shops not only sell radios but also domestic electrical appliances.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similar is the position here.
RatioOfTheDecision	The same shops which sell the tyres also sell 'V belts and fan belts and all these goods are manufactured from the same material rubber/synthetic rubber.
RatioOfTheDecision	So, prima facie, possibility of customers being confused in buying the goods of the defendants treating them to be of the plaintiff cannot be over-ruled.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1361643> ., , the trade mark 'CALTEX' was being used by one party in respect of petrol and various oil products.
RulingByLowerCourt	The other party started dealing with manufacture of watches under the same trade mark.
RulingByLowerCourt	It was held by <ORG> of the said Court that person seeing the mark attached to watches which was a new class of goods, would presume, or was most likely to assume that they originated _ from the proprietor of the mark, natur ally, the opponents.
RulingByLowerCourt	So, the registration was not granted.
RulingByLowerCourt	In para 49 <ORG> observed that in this case goods were totally different and there is no trade connection between them and there is no connection in the course of trade nor any common trade channels and there are factors against holding that there would be any danger of deception or confusion but the trade factors cannot be ignored which tend to show that there is' likelihood of creating deception and confusion.
Fact	As the opponents have been using the trade mark on a very large scale and their sales exceeded Rs.
Fact	30 crores in one year and their publicity is wide spread and large, it was found by <ORG> that the goods of both the nature are being purchased by a common man and as far as the trade mark 'CALTEX' is concerned, the same would confute the common customers thinking that the new product is also being marketed by the proprietors of the same trade mark 'CALTEX ^' who are manufacturing petroleum products.
RatioOfTheDecision	This case applies, l n me view, on all fours to the facts of the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The trade mark 'CEAT' has achieved lot of reputation and has become very common and the plaintiff has been marketing goods under the said trade mark running into substantial amounts and had incurred lot of expenditure on having wide publicity.
RatioOfTheDecision	So even though for the sake of arguments it is to be assumed that the goods manufactured by the defendants have no trade connection with the good marketed by the plaintiffs, still the common customer who is purchasing the goods is likely to be deceived with the new products of the defendants in all probabilities considering the same as manufactured by the plaintiff because they are being marketed under the same trade mark.
RatioOfTheDecision	(12) In view of the above disussion, I conclude that the plaintiff has a sirong, prima fade, case and the balance of convenience also lies in favor of therefore <ORG> v. <ORG> and "and"nr.dAvis International Ltd.".
RulingByPresentCourt	"a plaintiff and the plaintiff is, thus,  entitled to have interim injunction till the disposal of the suit.
RulingByPresentCourt	(13) I confirm the interim injunction already granted till the disposal of the suit.
