Fact	CASE NO.
Fact	: Appeal (crl.)
Fact	378 of 2005 PETITIONER: <NAME> and Anr.
Fact	RESPONDENT: State of Tamil Nadu DATE OF JUDGMENT: 03/03/2005 BENCH: <NAME> & <NAME> JUDGMENT:  JUDGMENT <NAME>, <NAME>Leave granted.
Fact	Appellants call in question legality of the judgment rendered by <ORG> of <ORG> affirming their conviction and sentence for alleged commission of offence punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the ` IPC ').
Fact	Seven persons faced trial for allegedly having committed homicidal death of one <NAME> (hereinafter referred to as the `deceased') and causing injuries on various persons in furtherance of their common intention after forming themselves into an unlawful assembly.
Fact	It was alleged that they had committed rioting, assaulted some of the witnesses causing injuries in addition to causing death of the deceased.
Fact	They were charged for commission of offences punishable under Sections 147 , 148 , 323 , 307 , 302 read with Section 109 , Sect ion 302 read with Section 149 and 307 read with Section 149 .
Fact	<ORG> found that in respect of three persons (hereinafter described as A-4, A-6 and A-7) no offence was made out and, therefore, they were acquitted.
Fact	Two of the accused persons before <ORG> i.e.
Fact	A-1 and A-2 were convicted of offence punishable under Section 324 .
Fact	The present appellants who were A-3 and A-5 were convicted in terms of Section 302 .
Fact	Though the prosecution had contended that all the accused persons acted in furtherance of common object being members of unlawful assembly and committed the crime, <ORG> did not accept the version.
Fact	Considering the individual overt acts the learned Trial Judge had recorded conviction as afore-noted.
Fact	So far as the present appellants are concerned, they were sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life.
Fact	Prosecution version as unfolded during trial is as follows:  <NAME> (hereinafter referred to as the `deceased') was the <NAME> of <NAME> (PW-1), <NAME> (PW-3) and <NAME> bazhagan (PW-5).
Fact	<NAME> (PW-2) is the cousin brother of PW-1.
Fact	<NAME> (PW-4) is the wife of PW-5 and daughter-in- law of the deceased.
Fact	PW-6 <NAME> was the brother of the deceased.
Fact	The accused A-2 and A-7 are the sons of A-6 and others are their relatives.
Fact	All are residing in a village called Kollumedu.
Fact	On 21.12.1993 one <NAME>, sister's son of <NAME> (A-1) was grazing the buffalos of A-1 in the lands belonging to PW-1's family.
Fact	On seeing this, PW-5 assaulted him which was reported to A-1, who questioned the conduct of PW-5 in assaulting him.
Fact	On hearing this news, deceased and <NAME> intervened and they were also assaulted, thereby straining the relationship.
Fact	On 22.12.1993 at about 8.00 a.m., PWs 1 and 2 were brushing their teeth near the common well of their village, Kollumedu.
Fact	At the time, they noticed that <NAME> (A-1) was passing nearby.
Fact	On seeing him, PW-1 questioned him as to whether it was fair on his part to assault PW-5 having grazed the buffalos in their land.
Fact	A-1 took exception  to this questioning by PW-1, threatened to assault him.
Fact	Thereafter, there was a wordy altercation between A-1 and PW-1 in the presence of PW-2.
Fact	A-1 became furious, went inside the house of A-6 which is very near to the common well and brought a stick, beat PW-1 on his back.
Fact	Aggrieved by this conduct of A-1, PW-1 and his brother PW-2 chased him.
Fact	A-1 took shelter in the house of A-6.
Fact	PWs 1 and 2 unable to retaliate and assault A-1, became unrestrained and were shouting in front of the house of A-6.
Fact	A-3, <NAME> hearing the threatening calls of PWs 1 and 2, yelled, that PWs.
Fact	1 and 2 should be assaulted, even if a murder takes place since they had stepped into their house and shouted.
Fact	Encouraged by the support, when PW-1 was standing in front of the house of A-6, A-2 came there with a weapon, assaulted PW-1 over his head.
Fact	A-4 assaulted PW-1 by a reaper M.O.3.
Fact	At the same time, A-1 assaulted him with an iron rod over the head.
Fact	A-2 assaulted PW-2 and caused injuries.
Fact	On seeing this incident, PW-3 also went ther e to their rescue.
Fact	A-2 attacked <NAME> causing stab injuries.
Fact	The <NAME> of PWs 1, 3 and 5 i.e.
Fact	the deceased hearing this news, rushed to the scene of occurrence in their support.
Fact	On seeing the deceased, A-3 and A-5 assaulted him over his head with yokes (M.O.5 and M.O.6), while A-6 caught hold of him, causing bleeding injuries of serious nature.
Fact	PW-1 chased the accused, taking a stick available from the scene of occurrence.
Fact	PW-6 on hearing the incident that his brother was assaulted came there, saw the injured and chased the accused away and in that process A-1 also sustained injuries.
Fact	This incident was witnessed by <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>.
Fact	PW-1 and others took the deceased in an injured condition to <ORG> at about 11.30 a.m.
Fact	Doctor (PW-8) attended on him and declared that he was dead at about 12.10 p.m. on 22.12.1993.
Fact	Information was lodged at the police station.
Fact	Investigation was undertaken and on completion thereof charge sheet was placed.
Fact	The accused persons pleaded innocence  and, therefore, the trial was conducted.
Fact	After placing reliance on the evidence of the witnesses, more particularly, the injured eye witnesses PWs 1, 2 and 3 <ORG> found the accused persons guilty as aforesaid.
Fact	The accused persons took the plea before <ORG> that they had also suffered injuries.
Fact	The wife of A-6, namely, <NAME> and <NAME> mother of PW-4 were also injured.
Fact	It is on record that the deceased and others had assaulted <NAME> and <NAME> and, therefore, in exercise of right of private defence the accused persons may have inflicted some injuries in the process of defending their life and property.
Fact	<ORG> did not accept the plea.
Fact	The conclusions of <ORG> were affirmed by <ORG> by the impugned judgment.
Argument	In support of the appeal, Mr. <NAME>, learned senior counsel submitted that the evidence on record clearly shows that ladies were assaulted first and to protect them under the apprehension of likely assault on them the accused persons in the process  of protecting their lives and properties have made assaults, even if prosecution version is accepted in toto.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since the accused persons had exercised the right of private defence, the conclusions of the courts below cannot be maintained.
Argument	The evidence on record establishes a free fight and the members of the complainant party were the aggressor.
Argument	The accused persons have also suffered injuries in exercise of right of private defence.
Argument	In response, learned counsel for the respondent-State submitted that this is not a case where plea of right of private defence can be pressed into service.
RatioOfTheDecision	Merely because some of the accused persons have suffered some injuries which were superficial in nature, there is no question of interference with the well-reasoned and well-discussed judgment of the courts below.
RatioOfTheDecision	Only question which needs to be considered is the alleged exercise of right of private defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 96 , IPC provides that nothing is an offence which is done in the exercise of the right of private defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The  Section does not define the expression `right of private defence'.
RatioOfTheDecision	It merely indicates that nothing is an offence which is done in the exercise of such right.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether in a particular set of circumstances, a person legitimately acted in the exercise of the right of private defence is a question of fact to be determined on the facts and circumstances of each case.
RatioOfTheDecision	No test in the abstract for determining such a question can be laid down.
RatioOfTheDecision	In determining this question of fact, the <ORG> must consider all the surrounding circumstances.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not necessary for the accused to plead in so many words that he acted in self-defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the circumstances show that the right of private defence was legitimately exercised, it is open to the <ORG> to consider such a plea.
RatioOfTheDecision	In a given case the <ORG> can consider it even if the accused has not taken it, if the same is available to be considered from the material on record.
Precedent	Under Section 105 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (in short `the Evidence Act '), the burden of proof is  on the accused, who sets up the plea of self-defence, and, in the absence of proof, it is not possible for the Court to presume the truth of the plea of self-defence.
Precedent	The Court shall presume the absence of such circumstances.
Precedent	It is for the accused to place necessary material on record either by himself adducing positive evidence or by eliciting necessary facts from the witnesses examined for the prosecution.
Precedent	An accused taking the plea of the right of private defence is not necessarily required to call evidence; he can establish his plea by reference to circumstances transpiring from the prosecution evidence itself.
Precedent	The question in such a case would be a question of assessing the true effect of the prosecution evidence, and not a question of the accused discharging any burden.
Precedent	Where the right of private defence is pleaded, the defence must be a reasonable and probable version satisfying the Court that the harm caused by the accused was necessary for either warding off the attack or for forestalling the further  reasonable apprehension from the side of the accused.
Precedent	The burden of establishing the plea of self-defence is on the accused and the burden stands discharged by showing preponderance of probabilities in favour of that plea on the basis of the material on record.
Precedent	( <CITATION_1479705> , AIR (1968) SC 702), <CITATION_1660698> , AIR (1975) SC 1478, <CITATION_853570> , AIR (1977) SC 2226 and <CITATION_153251> , AIR (1979) SC 577.
Precedent	Sections 100 to 101 define the extent of the right of private defence of body.
Precedent	If a person has a right of private defence of body under Section 97 , that right extends under Section 100 to causing death if there is reasonable apprehension that death or grievous hurt would be the consequence of the assault.
Precedent	The oft quoted observation of this <ORG> in <CITATION_1344060> ., AIR (1979) SC 391), runs as follows:  "It is true that the burden on an accused person to establish the plea of self-defence is not as onerous as the one which lies on the prosecution and that, while the prosecution is re quired to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt, the accused need not establish the plea to the hilt and may discharge his onus by establishing a mere preponderance of probabilities either by laying basis for that plea in the cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses or by adducing defence evidence...."  The accused need not prove the existence of the right of private defence beyond reasonable doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is enough for him to show as in a civil case that the preponderance of probabilities is in favour of his plea.
RatioOfTheDecision	The number of injuries is not always a safe criterion for determining who the aggressor was.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot be stated as a universal rule that whenever the injuries are on the body of the accused persons, a presumption must necessarily be raised that the accused persons had caused injuries in exercise of the right of private defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The defence has to further establish that the injuries so caused on the accused probabilise the version of the right of private defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Non-explanation of the injuries  sustained by the accused at about the time of occurrence or in the course of altercation is a very important circumstance.
RatioOfTheDecision	But mere non-explanation of the injuries by the prosecution may not affect the prosecution case in all cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	This principle applies to cases where the injuries sustained by the accused are minor and superficial or where the evidence is so clear and cogent, so independent and disinterested, so probable, consistent and credit-worthy, that it far outweighs the effect of the omission on the part of the prosecution to explain the injuries.
Precedent	[ <CITATION_807023> , AIR (1976) SC 2263].
Precedent	A plea of right of private defence cannot be based on surmises and speculation.
Precedent	While considering whether the right of private defence is available to an accused, it is not relevant whether he may have a chance to inflict severe and mortal injury on the aggressor.
Precedent	In order to find whether the right of private defence is available to an accused, the entire incident must be examined with care and viewed in its prope r setting.
Precedent	Section 97 deals with the subject matter of right of private defence.
Precedent	The plea of right comprises the body or property (i) of the person exercising the right; or (ii) of any other person; and the right may be exercised in the case of any offence against the body, and in the case of offences of theft, robbery, mischief or criminal trespass, and attempts at such offences in relation to property.
Precedent	Section 99 lays down the limits of the right of private defence.
Precedent	Sections 96 and 98 give a right of private defence against certain offences and acts.
Precedent	The right given under Sections 96 to 98 and 100 to 106 is controlled by Section 99 .
Precedent	To claim a right of private defence extending to voluntary causing of death, the accused must show that there were circumstances giving rise to reasonable grounds for apprehending that either death or grievous hurt would be caused to him.
Precedent	The burden is on the accused to show that he had a right of private defence which extended to causing of death.
Precedent	Sections 100 and 101 , IPC de fine the limit and extent of right of private defence.
Precedent	Sections 102 and 105 , IPC deal with commencement and continuance of the right of private defence of body and property respectively.
Precedent	The right commences, as soon as a reasonable apprehension of danger to the body arises from an attempt, or threat, to commit the offence, although the offence may not have been committed but not until there is that reasonable apprehension.
Precedent	The right lasts so long as the reasonable apprehension of the danger to the body continues.
Precedent	In <NAME>.
Precedent	v. State of Punjab, <ORG> (1963) SC 612, it was observed that as soon as the cause for reasonable apprehension disappears and the threat has either been destroyed or has been put to route, there can be no occasion to exercise the right of private defence.
Precedent	In order to find whether right of private defence is available or not, the injuries received by the accused, the imminence of threat to his safety, the injuries caused by the accused and the circumstances whether the accused had time to  have recourse to public authorities are all relevant factors to be considered.
Precedent	Similar view was expressed by this Court in <CITATION_1583190> , AIR (1975) SC 87.
Precedent	(See: <CITATION_1957166> ,  1 SCC 458 and <NAME> alias <CITATION_1043321> represented by Inspector of Police, T.N.
Precedent	8 SCC 354.
Precedent	As noted in <NAME> v. The State of Punjab, AIR (1991) SC 1316, a person who is apprehending death or bodily injury cannot weigh in golden scales in the spur of moment and in the heat of circumstances, the number of injuries required to disarm the assailants who were armed with weapons.
RatioOfTheDecision	In moments of excitement and disturbed mental equilibrium it is often difficult to expect the parties to preserve composure and use exactly only so much force in retaliation commensurate with the danger apprehended to him where assault is imminent by use of force, it would be lawful to repel the force in self-defence and the right of private-defence commences, as soon as the threat becomes so imminent.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such situations have to be pragmatic ally viewed and not with high-powered spectacles or microscopes to detect slight or even marginal overstepping.
RatioOfTheDecision	Due weightage has to be given to, and hyper technical approach has to be avoided in considering what happens on the spur of the moment on the spot and keeping in view normal human reaction and conduct, where self-preservation is the paramount consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, if the fact situation shows that in the guise of self- preservation, what really has been done is to assault the original aggressor, even after the cause of reasonable apprehension has disappeared, the plea of right of private-defence can legitimately be negatived.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Court dealing with the plea has to weigh the material to conclude whether the plea is acceptable.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is essentially, as noted above, a finding of fact.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right of self-defence is a very valuable right, serving a social purpose and should not be construed narrowly.
RatioOfTheDecision	( <CITATION_1636646> ., <ORG> (1971) SC 1857.
RatioOfTheDecision	Situations have to be judged from the subjective point of view of t he accused concerned in the surrounding excitement and confusion of the moment, confronted with a situation of peril and not by any microscopic and pedantic scrutiny.
RatioOfTheDecision	In adjudging the question as to whether more force than was necessary was used in the prevailing circumstances on the spot it would be inappropriate, as held by this <ORG>, to adopt tests by detached objectivity which would be so natural in a <ORG> room, or that which would seem absolutely necessary to a perfectly cool bystander.
RatioOfTheDecision	The person facing a reasonable apprehension of threat to himself cannot be expected to modulate his defence step by step with any arithmetical exactitude of only that much which is required in the thinking of a man in ordinary times or under normal circumstances.
Precedent	In the illuminating words of <NAME> (<NAME> on Crime, 11th Edition Volume I at page 49) :  "....a man is justified in resisting by force anyone who manifestly intends and endeavours by violence or surprise to commit a known felony against either his person, ha bitation or property.
Precedent	In these cases, he is not obliged to retreat, and may not merely resist the attack where he stands but may indeed pursue his adversary until the danger is ended and if in a conflict between them he happens to kill his attacker, such killing is justifiable."
Precedent	The right of private defence is essentially a defensive right circumscribed by the governing statute i.e.
Precedent	the IPC , available only when the circumstances clearly justify it.
Precedent	It should not be allowed to be pleaded or availed as a pretext for a vindictive, aggressive or retributive purpose of offence.
Precedent	It is a right of defence, not of retribution, expected to repel unlawful aggression and not as retaliatory measure.
Precedent	While providing for exercise of the right, care has been taken in IPC not to provide and has not devised a mechanism whereby an attack may be a pretence for killing.
RatioOfTheDecision	A right to defend does not include a right to launch an offensive, particularly when the need to defend no longer survived.
RatioOfTheDecision	Considering the background facts as  highlighted above when tested in the backdrop of the legal principles noted supra the inevitable conclusion is that the accused persons had not established that they were exercising right of private defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The residual plea is that only a single blow was given by a wooden yoke of very light weight.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though it cannot be laid down as a rule of universal application that whenever death occurs on account of a single blow, Section 302  is ruled out, the fact situation has to be considered in each case.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears from the records, as noted above, that a single blow was given on the head of the deceased by a small wooden yoke.
RatioOfTheDecision	Considering the background facts as noted above, it would be proper to alter the conviction from Section 302  to Section 304 Part I .
RatioOfTheDecision	Custodial sentence of 10 years would meet the ends of justice.
RulingByPresentCourt	The appeal is accordingly disposed of.
