Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	The main complaint of the appellant in this case is that the learned Single Judge did not frame any issues in the case and although contentions of fact were raised in the written statement, the suit was disposed or without recording any evidence.
Fact	2.
Fact	The suit was filed under Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure by <NAME> and four others against <NAME> and <NAME> initially.
Fact	It was prayed that this Court may declare that the plaintiffs were competent to make an immediate donation of Rs.2,50,000/- towards the establishment of Guru Nanak Eye Hospital in Delhi with the aim to evolve it into a full-fledged institute of opthalmology and to repeat and augment such donations as occasion arises and the finance of the <ORG> permit.
Fact	The plaintiffs alleged that they are the members and office bearers of <ORG>, Sis Ganj.
Fact	Chandni Chowk, Delhi, which is a religious and charitable institution registered un der the Societies Registration Act , 1860 and this Society manages and controls all historical <ORG> of Delhi and was running numerous religious and chargeable institutions, colleges, dispensaries etc.
Fact	It was alleged that written consent of the Collector of Delhi to institute this suit was granted on September 22, 1970 to the plaintiffs who have filed the suit not only for themselves but also on behalf of <ORG> as represented by its Secretary and President.
Fact	The activities of <ORG> are enumerated in the plaint where it is also stated that the idea of establishing a Guru Nanak Eye Hospital in Delhi was mooted with the aim to evolve it into a full-fledged institute of ophthalmology provided the Government was prepared to build the hospital and to run it; that the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi assured full Government support; that <ORG> should make substantial contribution keeping in view the financial position and should to st art with contribute Rs.2,50,000/- for the purpose and invite contributions from the Sikh Public; that for this purpose legal opinion was taken as to whether <ORG> could under its bye-laws lawfully make such contributions and upon receipt of the opinion it was decided to seek appropriate directions from a competent <ORG> under Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Fact	The plaint recited the opening of free dispensaries.
Fact	It further stated that during the financial year 1970 the income of <ORG> was over Rs.45,50,000/- and that with these funds at its disposal it had every right to donate funds to an institute of ophthalmology without offending its bye-laws particularly when this donation was to be made in the scared name of the founder of Sikhism and in commemoration of is 50t birthday.
Fact	It was averred in the Gurdwara Prabandhak Committed was unanimously in favor of such a donation and that the initial donation of Rs.2,50,000/- was to be repeated as a nd when its resources allowed.
Fact	It was for these reasons that the suit was filed for the approval of the <ORG> after obtaining the necessary sanction under Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Fact	3.
Fact	The plaint bore a fixed courtfee of Rs.19.50 under Art.
Fact	17 (iv) of the Second Schedule to the <ORG>-fees Act and the value of the suit for purposes of jurisdiction was fixed at Rs.2,50,000/- which was the amount in respect of which sanction of the <ORG> was prayed for.
Fact	4.
Fact	Along with the suit, an application was filed under Order 1, Rule 8, of the Code of Civil Procedure in pursuance of which notices were issued and the four appellants came to defend the suit.
Fact	5.
Fact	In the written statement filed by the appellants it was denied that this <ORG> has jurisdiction to entertain the suit.
Argument	It was further denied that the suit had been filed with the requisite permission under Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure and it was averred that all the facts were not disclosed to the authority concerned whose consent to file  the suit had been obtained fraudulently.
Argument	It was further averred that <ORG> had served connection with <ORG> about 10 years ago and <ORG> had not followed its bye-laws inasmuch as the consent of <ORG> had not been obtained for expenses beyond Rs.2,000/- incurred by <ORG>.
Argument	For various reasons set out in the written statement the valid constitution of <ORG> was denied.
Argument	The written statement further contained a bare denial of the factum and validity of the consent of the Collector as alleged in the plaint.
Argument	Various instances of unauthorised expenses by <ORG> have been cited in the written statements making allegations against the plaintiffs but in connection with the opening of <ORG> it was stated:- "The answering defendants are whole-heartedly with the scheme mentioned and would also contrib ute their mite in a reverential spirit, but they can't allow the present <ORG> to take personal advantages, to which they are prone, and against which the said Advocate is not prepared to give any assurances."
Argument	It is clear from the above quoted plea that the appellants are not against the scheme nor do they aver that the proposed donation of RS.2,50,000/- was not justified.
Argument	6.
Argument	The respondents filed a replication reiterating the statements made in the plaint and controverting the allegations of unauthorised expenditure and improper constitution of <ORG> pleaded in the written statement.
Argument	7.
Argument	The learned Single Judge who dealt with the suit did not frame any Issues because he seems to have heard arguments on the contentions which were raised on behalf of the appellants.
Argument	He held that this Court had jurisdiction to entertain the suit in view of its value being Rs.2,50,000/- that no exception could be taken to the functioning of the present <ORG> pending the dis posal of R.F.A.
Argument	No.
Argument	110 of 1967 pending in this Court in which an order had been made by one of us (<NAME>) on May 8,1967, upon consent to the effect that both the parties to the appeal had undertaken not to elect fresh committee during the pendency of the appeal; that no details of fraud having been given by the appellants in obtaining the consent of the Collector the plea was not open to them; that the Court was not called upon in this suit to decide the allegations to squandering by the respondents as the only direction that was sought for was for the payment of RS.2,50,000 for the opening of the Guru Nanak Eye Hospital which was one of the objects under the bye-laws of <ORG>.
Argument	The learned Judge was of the view that there was an admission by the appellants with regard to the desirability of making the donation and therefore, a direction for making that donation could be given under Order 12, Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure on that admission.
Argument	In the result, the learne d Judge decreed the suit and declared that the respondents were competent to make the donation of Rs.2,50,000/- towards the establishment of <ORG> in Delhi and to make further donations to the said institution an occasion arose provided the finances of <ORG> so permitted.
Argument	The learned Judge directed that such contributions should be made through a cross-cheque drawn in payee's account.
Argument	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	We do not find any substances in the complaint of the appellants that Issues were not framed in the suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	The object of framing Issues in a suit is to determine the rival contentions of the parties so that the suit may proceed with respect to those contentions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellants have not pointed out to us any contention raised by them in the written statement which has not been dealt with by the learned Single Judge.
RatioOfTheDecision	That being so, the absence of Issues cannot be said to have prejudiced the appellants.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even the complaint of the appellants that they were not allowed to lead evidence  seems to be frivolous because the contentions raised in the suit are legal contentions for which hardly any evidence was necessary in view of the pleas raised.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
Argument	The first contention that has been raised by Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the appellants, is that this <ORG> has no jurisdiction to entertain this suit.
Argument	This argument is that a suit as authorised by Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure has to be filed in the principal civil <ORG> of original jurisdiction which in Delhi is the <ORG> of the District Judge, Delhi, by reason of Section 24 of the Punjab <ORG>s Act which provides that the <ORG> of the District Judge shall be deemed to be the District <ORG> or principal Civil <ORG> of original jurisdiction in the district.
Argument	On this question it is relevant to mention that the valuation of the suit was fixed in the plaint at Rs.2,50,000/- and no plea has been raised in the written statement objecting to this valuation.
Fact	This question has, therefore, to be decided on the basis that the valuation of the  suit has been fixed correctly at Rupees 2,50,000/-.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
RatioOfTheDecision	If only Section 24 of the Punjab Courts Act were to be taken into consideration then there will be no doubt that the principal <ORG> of original jurisdiction to try this suit would be <ORG>, Delhi.
Argument	But a change was brought about by the Delhi High Court Act , 1966, as amended, by sub-section (2) of Section 5 which provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, <ORG> shall also have in respect of the territory of Delhi ordinary original civil jurisdiction in every suit the value of which exceeds fifty thousand rupees.
Argument	This sub-section starts with a non-obstante clause and is applicable to "every" suit the value of which exceeds fifty thousand rupees.
Argument	This being a suit the value of which exceeds fifty thousand rupees would be covered by this sub-section.
Argument	The argument of Mr. <NAME> is that there could be two principal <ORG>s of original jurisdiction within the m eaning of Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is difficult to accept this contention.
Fact	After the coming into force of the Delhi High <ORG> Act , 1966, as amended, this <ORG> has become the principal Civil <ORG> of original jurisdiction with respect to every suit the value of which exceeds fifty thousand rupees.
Fact	In view of the non obstante clause contained in sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the Delhi High <ORG> Act, 1966, the <ORG> of the District Judge, Delhi, has ceased to remain the principal Civil <ORG> of original jurisdiction with respect to any suit value of which exceeds fifty thousand rupees.
Argument	Full effect has to be given to the language employed in sub-section (2) of Section 5 "notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force" and that can be done only by saving that for purposes of Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the <ORG> of the District Judge, Delhi, will be the principal Civil <ORG> of original jurisdiction in every suit the value of which does not excee d fifty thousand rupees but in other suits the value of which exceeds fifty thousand rupees, <ORG> will be the principal <ORG> of original jurisdiction.
Argument	It cannot be disputed that if original jurisdiction had been completely taken away from <ORG>, Delhi and conferred upon <ORG>, then notwithstanding Section 24 of the Punjab Courts Act, <ORG> will be the principal <ORG> of original jurisdiction irrespective of the valuation of the suit as in the case of what are called <ORG>.
Argument	Reference in this connection may be made to in re: <CITATION_641435> , where it has been held that <ORG> in the City of Bombay is the principal <ORG> of original jurisdiction.
Argument	The original jurisdiction value of <ORG> is in every suit the value of which exceeds fifty thousand rupees and therefore, <ORG> is the principal Court of original civil jurisdiction in every such suit.
Argument	A jurisdiction of <ORG>  District Judge, Delhi has been conferred upon <ORG> and, therefore, with respect to such part, <ORG> will be the principal Court of ordinary original civil jurisdiction notwithstanding Section 24 of the Punjab Courts Act.
Argument	We, therefore, agree with the learned Single Judge that for the purpose of this suit the value of which exceeds fifty thousand rupees, <ORG> is the principal <ORG> of original jurisdiction as contemplated by Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Argument	11.
Argument	The next contention raised by the appellants is with respect to the factum and validity of the sanction under Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure for filling this suit.
Argument	The bald plea raised by the appellants in their written statement was that they denied "the factum and the validity of the consent of the Collector as alleged".
RatioOfTheDecision	No details are given as to why the factum of the consent is denied.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact of the matter is that the consent was given by Mr. <NAME> who has described himself as "<NAME>;  District Magistrate (North) exercising powers of Advocate General under Section 92 of the Civil Procedure Code."
RatioOfTheDecision	If the appellants wanted to question the authority of Mr. <NAME> to grant the consent under Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure, they should have pleaded facts and made averments to show the basis for this contention.
RatioOfTheDecision	The consent obtained by the respondents had been filed with the plaint.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was for the appellants to give reasons to show that the consent granted was not the consent of the Collector within the meaning of Section 92 and 93 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
RatioOfTheDecision	The pleading as to the factum of the consent of the Collector is completely value and did not give rise to any Issue in the absence of particulars.
Argument	In fact, the judgment of the learned Single Judge does not record any contention relating to the factum of the consent by the Collector, Mr. <NAME> has attempted to argue that Mr. <NAME> does not describe himself as the Collector but only as the Additional District Magistrate (North ) and as such ex facie the consent is not that of the Collector.
Argument	If particulars of the plea had been given in the written statement, it would have been open to the respondents to show that Mr. <NAME> had been appointed under Section 93 of the Code of Civil Procedure to exercise the powers of the Advocate General.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are not, therefore, prepared to entertain the plea that the consent has not been granted by the Collector.
Argument	12.
Argument	The connected contention is that the consent was not validly obtained.
Argument	All that has been pleaded in paragraph 2 of the preliminary objections in the written statement amounts to a denial that all the facts were disclosed to the authority concerned with a view that the consent has been fraudulently obtained.
Argument	The facts which were not disclosed or the facts relating to the alleged fraud have not been disclosed in the written statement.
Argument	The learned Single Judge was, therefore, right in observing that the details of the allegation fraud stated to have been committed by the respondents on the  Collector while obtaining the consent under Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure are lacking and not a single instance of the fraud has been cited by the appellants in the written statement O.6 R. 4 of the Civil P.C.
Argument	requires that in all cases in which the party pleading relies on, inter alia any fraud particulars with dates and items if necessary shall be stated in the pleading.
Argument	In the absence of such particulars, the plea of fraud is not open to the appellants and the mere allegation that the consent had been fraudulently obtained would not call for the farming of an Issue or the taking of any evidence.
Argument	We, therefore, hold that in the state of the pleadings in this suit, the appellants cannot be heard to deny the factum or validity of the consent granted by Mr. <NAME> to the respondents.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> argued that the respondents had applied for sanction in their capacity as office-bearers of <ORG> but sanction was given only to the respondents personally.
Argument	We do not find any su bstance in this connection because in the order granting consent, the respondents are named in their personal capacity and their capacity qua <ORG> has been mentioned as a description.
Argument	In the plaint the respondents have stated that the suit has been instituted by them and also purports to be on behalf of <ORG> as represented by its Secretary and President as required by Section 6 of the Societies Registration Act, 1860.
Argument	It is, therefore, clear that the suit has been filed by the respondents in their personal capacity and also as office bearers of <ORG>.
Argument	Even if the suit on behalf of <ORG> is not competent, no objection could be raised to the competency of the respondents to file the suit as the consent has not been granted to them in their names.
Argument	This contention is also without force.
Argument	13.
Argument	The last contention is that there was no admission by the appellants in their written statement as contempla ted by Order 12, Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure and, therefore, the learned Single Judge was not right in stating that there was such an admission and deciding the suit on its basis.
Argument	Even though there is strictly no admission to invoke Order 12, Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the question is whether the parties were at Issue with regard to the desirability of making the donation of RS.2,50,000/- for the purpose of <ORG>.
Argument	As has been mentioned in the earlier part of this judgment, the appellants themselves have stated that they are whole heartedly with the scheme mentioned and would also contribute their mite in a reverential spirit.
Argument	No averments has been made that looking to the finances of <ORG> such a donation cannot be made.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances even though there is no admission on the part of the appellants, they have not raised any objection to the desirability of making the donation.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, they have gone to the extent of saying that they will thems elves contribute to the scheme.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their only objection is that they cannot allow the present <ORG> to take personal advantages.
RatioOfTheDecision	What those advantages are has not been specified.
RatioOfTheDecision	Keeping in view that there was no objection to the desirability of making the donation and also the fact that there is pending litigation between the parties, the learned Single Judge has taken care to give a direction that the donations must be made through a cross cheque drawn in the payee's account.
RatioOfTheDecision	This direction will ensure that the donations to be made by the <ORG> will go into proper hands and we have really been unable to find why the appellants who admit the desirability of the donations have filed a written statement to this suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	14.
RatioOfTheDecision	Questions have been raised in the written statement as to the legality of <ORG> as at present constituted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Allegations have been made that the funds of <ORG> are being squandered by the pres ent <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	These questions are irrelevant for the purpose of the present suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the case of a public trust where directions of the <ORG> are considered necessary any two or more persons having an interest in the trust can file a suit under Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure after obtaining the necessary consent.
RatioOfTheDecision	The respondents could in their personal capacity have filed the suit and in this suit the only question which falls for consideration is whether the proposed donation should be made by the Gurudwara Prabandhak <ORG> irrespective of who its present office bearers may be.
RatioOfTheDecision	The allegations made in the written statement cannot be tried in this suit and did not call for any issue.
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
RulingByPresentCourt	This appeal is, therefore, dismissed but there will be no order as to costs.
RulingByPresentCourt	16.
RulingByPresentCourt	Appeal dismissed.
