Fact	ORDER <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This appeal by special leave impugns the judgment and order dated 8th May, 1970 of <ORG>.
Fact	The issue in the appeal relates to the application of Section 14(1) of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956.
Fact	It stands outside the line of cases decided by this <ORG> in that it is argued that, in giving maintenance, provision for residence is not to be made.
Fact	2.
Fact	One <NAME> had two sons, <NAME> and <NAME>.
Fact	<NAME> died in 1891 leaving no issue.
Fact	<NAME> had two sons, <NAME> and <NAME>.
Fact	In 1905 <NAME> was taken in adoption by <NAME>'s widow.
Fact	After the adoption of <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> remained coparceners until the death in 1911 of <NAME>.
Fact	<NAME> left behind his wife <NAME> and a daughter.
Fact	On 7th February, 1928, <NAME> executed a will bequeathing his estate to <NAME>.
Fact	<NAME>, who had been living with her <NAME>-in-law <NAME>, protested; being the widow of a coparcener she was entitled to be maintained out of joint family pr operty.
Fact	An agreement was then entered into between <NAME> and <NAME>.
Fact	It was dated 26th June, 1934.
Fact	It recited that <NAME> had been boarding and lodging with <NAME>, and that family disputes had arisen.
Fact	To put an end to the family disputes, <NAME> and <NAME>, by the agreement, appointed one <NAME> as arbitrator to "allot property and cost for executant number 2 for her life for residence and maintenance".
Fact	The arbitrator <NAME> entered upon the reference and made an award on 9th July, 1934.
Fact	He set out the particulars of properties belonging to <NAME> at Bidasar and Ladnu and gave the choice of selecting one to <NAME> to "reside till her life time in them or in it and she can use it in any way she likes.
Fact	On necessity she will get its repairs done with her own money.
Fact	She will have no right to sell, mortgage of transfer in any other way.
Fact	After her death, the properties stated in para No.
Fact	1 or 2 (whichever she might take) will revert to <NAME>, His Heirs and legal representatives.
Fact	Her righ t will be only in her lifetime.
Fact	She is authorised to undertake construction for necessity and convenience.
Fact	She may increase or decrease apartments with her money.
Fact	But she will not be authorised to destroy, deteriorate its usefulness and condition, etc.
Fact	4.
Fact	For the maintenance of Smt.
Fact	<NAME>, I give my finding that it is better to give a lumpsum instead of giving monthly or annually because she wants to receive money in lump sum.
Fact	By giving lump sum, the disputes, which might arise from time to time at the time of demand and payment, might be avoided.
Fact	Therefore I give may finding that <ORG> will pay a sum of Rs.
Fact	45,000 (rupees forty five thousand only) to Smt.
Fact	<NAME> for maintenance in case she accepts the house at Ladnu and in case she takes the house and the Nohra at Bidasar, she will be given Rs.
Fact	37,000 (rupees thirty seven thousand only).
Fact	Since there is no apartment in the Nohra, <ORG> will pay a sum of Rs.. 1000 (rupees one thousand only) more besides Rs.
Fact	37,000 (rupees thirty seven thousand only ) for constructing Dhalia, room for keeping grass and fodder and a Hauz....  (5) The money which will be given to her for maintenance will be her personal money and she can use it as she likes (8) After the execution of the aforesaid terms, <NAME> will be free from all kinds of litigations or compensation of Smt.
Fact	<NAME> and she will have no right in the ancestral or personal properties of <NAME> or his heirs or legal representatives.
Fact	Further, <NAME>, his heirs or legal representatives will also have no right in Smt.
Fact	<NAME>'s any property or her Shtridhan except noted in Para No.3....  3.
Fact	On 10th July, 1934, <NAME> executed a document wherein she stated that she had accepted the property at Bidasar under the terms of <NAME> award.
Fact	She would "have right in the house and Nohra at Bidasar in the manner that I will go on residing in the said house at Bidasar till my life time and go on using the Nohra.
Fact	I will keep the house and Nohra in my possession and use them in the manner I like and on neces sity, I will get it repaired with my money.
Fact	I will be authorised to effect minor changes etc.
Fact	by way of construction for my convenience, but I will not be authorised to waste or damage the said Haveli and <ORG>.
Fact	After my death the house will again revert to <NAME>, his surviving sons and grandsons or other heirs and successors or legal representatives.
Fact	My heirs and successors or legal representative will have no right of possession or ownership over the said property....  3.
Fact	The arbitrator has allowed me Rs.
Fact	37,000 in case I take the house and <ORG> at Bidasar (<ORG> with Rs.
Fact	1000 for constructing rooms).
Fact	I agree to take this amount for my maintenance etc.
Fact	over which I will have absolute right....  7.
Fact	In the end it is clearly stated that now I shall have no concern of any kind in the movable and immovable properties and the cash of <NAME> which might be existing in this state or in British India or at any other place....  <NAME> died on 24th April, 1945.
Fact	4.
Fact	Section 14 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, re ads thus :  Property of a female Hindu to be her absolute property - (1) Any property possessed by a female Hindu, whether acquired before or after the commencement of this Act, shall be held by her as full owner thereof and not as a limited owner.
Fact	Explanation-In this sub-section, "property" includes both movable and immovable property acquired by a female Hindu by inheritance or devise, or at a partition, or in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance, or by gift from any person, whether a relative or not, before, at or after her marriage, or by her own skill or exertion, or by purchase or by prescription, or in any other manner whatsoever, and also any such property held by her as <NAME> immediately before the commencement of this Act.
Fact	(2) Nothing contained in Sub-section (1) shall apply to any property acquired by way of gift or under a will or any other instrument or under a decree or order of a civil court or under an award where the terms of the gift, will or other instrument or the decree, or der or award prescribe a restricted estate in such property.
Fact	5.
Fact	On 11th April, 1960, <NAME> executed sale deeds relating to the 'Nohra' in the <ORG> property in favour of one <NAME>, in respect of its Western side, and one <NAME>, in respect of its Eastern side.
Fact	6.
Fact	On 17th May, 1960, <NAME> and his sons filed a suit challenging the validity of the sale.
Fact	The vendees were made parties.
Fact	The trial court dismissed the suit holding that <NAME> had become, by reason of the Act, the full owner of the property at <ORG>.
Fact	The plaintiffs appealed to <ORG>.
Fact	<ORG> took the view that the words "in lieu of maintenance" in the explanation to Section 14(1) applied to property specifically allotted to a widow for her maintenance while the words "or in any other manner whatsoever" covered specific property allotted to her or her residence.
Fact	It held that <NAME> had not become the full owner of the property at <ORG> on the coming into force of the Act because she had only a res tricted life-estate therein.
Fact	The appeal was, accordingly, allowed.
Fact	The sale deeds were held to be void and the plaintiffs to be entitled to possession of the <ORG> upon the death of <NAME>.
Fact	7.
Fact	This appeal is by the vendees of the '<ORG>', <NAME> and <NAME>.
Argument	8.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned Counsel for the appellants, submitted that <NAME> had a pre-existing right to maintenance and that under the award she was given a life interest in the <NAME> property along with a sum of Rs.
Fact	37,000 in lieu of that right.
Fact	She, therefore, acquired limited ownership of the <NAME> property under the award in 1934 and that limited ownership blossomed into full ownership on the coming into force of the Act.
Argument	9.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned Counsel for the respondents, submitted that, for the application of Section 14(1) , it was requisite that the property should have been 'acquired' and that the acquisition was of ownership rights comparable to those of a limited estate holder under the old Hindu law.
Argument	Since <NAME> had been c onceded only the right of residence in the <NAME> Property, she had not acquired any right thereto.
Argument	Hence, Section 14(1) did not apply.
Argument	The use of the two expressions "limited owner" and "full owner" in Section 14(1) presupposed the existence of a limited ownership right before the same could be converted into full ownership.
Argument	The modes of acquisition contemplated in the Explanation to Section 14(1) suggested that it was the right of ownership which was insisted upon.
RatioOfTheDecision	A right in the nature of a right of residence could not be equated with a right of ownership.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even during the life time of <NAME>, the reversioners, to whom the <NAME> property belonged as legatees under <NAME>'s will, could create a mortgage thereof without her permission because they continued to be the owners of <NAME> property.
RatioOfTheDecision	The concession in the award of the right of residence in the <NAME> property to <NAME> was over and above the provision for maintenance in terms of money.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if it were to be held that the award conferred  a title to the property for the purposes of Section 14(1) , it did not not come from any pre-existing right.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
Precedent	In the leading case on the subject of Section 14 , <CITATION_485394> ) by L.Rs.
Precedent	, it was held that under the Sastric Hindu Law a Hindu widow had a right to be maintained out of joint family property and this right ripened into a charge if the widow took the necessary steps for having her maintenance ascertained and specifically charged on the joint family property.
Precedent	Even if no specific charge were created, this right was enforceable against joint family property in the hands of a volunteer or a purchaser taking it with notice of her claim.
Precedent	When Specific property was allotted to the widow in lieu of her claim for maintenance, the allotment was in satisfaction of her right to be maintained out of the joint family property.
Precedent	It was not a grant for the first time without any pre-existing right in the widow.
Precedent	The widow got the property by virtue of her pre-existing right, the instrument giving the propert y being merely a document effectuating such pre-existing right.
Precedent	Section 14(1) was large in its amplitude and covered every kind of acquisition of property by a female Hindu including acquisition in lieu of maintenance.
Precedent	Where such property was possessed by her at the date of commencement of the Act, she became its full owner.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words "any property" were large enough to cover any and every kind of property but in order to expend the reach and ambit of the Section and make it all comprehensive the Explanation thereto had been enacted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whatever be the kind of property, movable or immovable, and whichever be the mode of acquisition, it would be covered by Section 14(1) .
RatioOfTheDecision	The object of the <ORG> was to wipe out the disabilities from which a Hindu woman suffered in regard to the ownership of property under the old Sastric Law and to recognise her status as an independent and absolute owner of property.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sub-section (2) of Section 14 was in the nature of a proviso to Sub-section (1).
RatioOfTheDecision	It had to be read in the c ontext of Sub-section (1) to leave as large a scope for the operation of Sub-section (1) as possible.
RatioOfTheDecision	So read, sub- section (2) had to be confined to cases where property was acquired by a Hindu woman without any pre-existing right for the first time under a gift, will, instrument, decree, order or award, the terms of which prescribed a restricted estate in the property.
Precedent	Where property was acquired by a Hindu woman in lieu of her right to maintenance it was by virtue of a pre-existing right and such acquisition was not within the scope and ambit of Sub-section (2) even if the instrument allotting the property prescribed a restricted estate in it.
Precedent	Where property was acquired by a Hindu woman under an instrument by virtue of a pre-existing right to maintenance and, under the law as it stood prior to the enactment of the Act, she would have had no more than a limited interest in the property, a provision in the instrument giving her limited interest in the property was merely by way of recognition of the legal p osition as it existing and the restriction on her interest, being a disability imposed by law, was wiped out and her limited interest enlarged under Sub-section (1).
Precedent	11.
Precedent	<CITATION_1436076> .
Argument	, it was argued that even if the land in question had been given to the appellant in lieu of maintenance, it had to be established tha't what was given to her was a limited estate in the sense of ownership without the right of alienation and that under Section 14 of the Act only such a limited estate would blossom into her absolute estate.
Argument	this Court rejected the argument.
Argument	It said that it was obvious that Section 14 was aimed at removing restrictions or limitations on the right of a Hindu woman to enjoy, as a full owner, property possessed by her so long as her possession was traceable to a lawful origin, that is to say, if she had a vestige of a title.
Argument	It made no difference whether the property was acquired by inheritance or devise or at a partition or in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance or by gift or by he r own skill or exertion or by purchase or by prescription or in any other manner whatsoever.
Argument	The Explanation to Section 14(1) expressly referred to property acquired in lieu of maintenance and the <ORG> could not see what further title the widow was required to establish before she could claim full ownership under Section 14(1) in respect of property given to her and possessed by her in lieu of maintenance.
Argument	The very right to receive maintenance was sufficient title to enable the ripening of possession into full ownership if she was in possession of the property in lieu of maintenance.
Argument	The <ORG> added that it did not understand that in the case of <CITATION_189307> , it had been laid down that what was enlarged by Section 14(1) into a full estate was the Hindi woman's estate known to Hindu Law.
Precedent	When the <ORG> had used the words "limited estate", they were used to connote a right in the property to which the possession of the Hindu woman could legitimately be traced, but it was not a full right of ownership.
Precedent	If  a Hindu woman was put in possession of property pursuant to or in recognition of a right to maintenance, it could not be denied that she had acquired a limited right or interest in the property and once that position was accepted it followed that the right got enlarged to full ownership under Section 14(1) .
Precedent	12.
Precedent	The property acquired by a Hindu widow under an award for partition of her late <NAME>'s estate was the subject-matter of the decision of this Court in <CITATION_1138065> .
Precedent	The word "acquired" in Section 14(1) had , the Court said, to be given the widest possible meaning.
Precedent	This was so because of the language of the Explanation which made Sub-section (1) applicable to acquisition of property by inheritance or devise or at a partition or in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance or by gift or by a female's own skill or exertion or by purchase or prescription or in any manner whatsoever.
Precedent	Sub-section (2) of Section 14 was more in the nature of a proviso to Sub-section (1).
Precedent	It could come into oper ation only if acquisition by any of the methods indicated therein was made for the first time without there being any pre- existing right in the Hindu woman who was in possession of the property.
Precedent	The mere fact that there had been a partition by means of arbitration which resulted in an award and a decree based on it did not bring the matter within Sub-section (2) as the provisions of Sub-section (1) became fully applicable in view of the terms of the Explanation.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> drew our attention to <CITATION_543934> .
Precedent	, and he emphasised a passage which reads thus :  (7) It is true that the appellant was in possession of <NAME> properties but that fact alone is not sufficient to attract the operation of Section 14 .
Precedent	The property possessed by a female Hindu, as contemplated in the section is clearly property to which she has acquired some kind of title whether before or after the commencement of the Act.
Precedent	It may be noticed that the Explanation to Section 14(1) sets out the various modes of acquisition o f the property by a female Hindu and indicates that the section applies only to property to which the female Hindu has acquired some kind of title, however restricted the nature of her interest may be.
Precedent	The words "as full owner thereof and not as a limited owner" as given in the last portion of Sub-section (1) of Section 14 clearly suggest that the legislature intended that the limited ownership of a Hindu female should be changed into full ownership.
Precedent	In other words, Section 14(1) of the Act contemplates that a Hindu female who, in the absence of this provision, would have been limited owner of the property, will now become full owner of the same by virtue of this section.
Precedent	The object of the section is to extinguish the estate called 'limited estate' or 'widow's estate' in Hindu Law and to make a Hindu woman, who under the old law would have been only a limited owner a full owner of the property will all powers of disposition and to make the estate heritable by her own heirs and not revertible to the heirs of t he last male holder.
Precedent	The Explanation to Sub-section (1) of Section 14 defines the word 'property' as including "both movable and immovable property acquired by a female Hindu by inheritance or devise...." Sub-section (2) of Section 14 also refers to acquisition of property.
Precedent	It is true that the Explanation has not given any exhaustive connotation of the word "property " but the word 'acquired used in the Explanation and also in Sub-section (2) of Section 14 clearly indicates that the object of the section is to make a Hindu female a full owner of the property which she has already acquired or which she acquired after the enforcement of the Act.
Precedent	It does not in any way confer a title on the female Hindu where she did not in fact possess any vestige or title.
Precedent	It follows, therefore, that the section cannot be interpreted so as to validate the illegal possession of a female Hindu and it does not confer any title on a mere trespasser.
Precedent	In other words, the provisions of Section 14(1) of the Act cannot be attracted in  the case of a Hindu female who is in possession of the property of the last male holder on the date of the commencement of the Act when she is only a trespasser without any right to property.
Precedent	It is difficult to see how this judgment can assist the respondents' case.
Precedent	The <ORG> did not intend to mean that the object of Section 14 was only to extinguish the estate called 'limited estate' or widow's estate' under the Hindu Law.
Precedent	That is clear from the passage quoted when it refers to "some kind of title" and "any vestige of title".
Precedent	It is clear also from what the <ORG> held in the last sentence quoted above, namely, that the provisions of Section 14(1) are not attracted in the case of a Hindu woman who is in possession of property only as a trespasser and without any right thereto.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	The next case which Mr. <NAME> cited was <CITATION_502707> (dead) .
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> stressed that it was there stated that the expression "possessed by" in Section 14(1) was not intended to apply to a case of mere possession without tit le and the <ORG> intended this provision for cases where the Hindu woman possessed a right of ownership in the property in question.
Precedent	In paragraph 9 of the same judgment the <ORG> said that it appeared that the relevant date on which the Hindu woman should be possessed of the property in dispute should be the date on which the question of applying the provisions of Section 14(1) arose.
Precedent	If, on that date, when the provisions of this Section were sought to be applied, the property was possessed by a Hindu women, it would be held that she was full owner of it and not merely a limited owner.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	The next judgment upon which Mr. <NAME> placed reliance was that of this <ORG> in <CITATION_189307> , to which reference has already been made.
Precedent	It was pointed out that the <ORG> had said that a plain reading of Section 14(1) made it clear that the concerned Hindu woman should have limited ownership in the property, which limited ownership would get enlarged by the operation of that sub-section.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was intended to enl arge any sort of a right which in no sense could be described as ownership.
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression "and not as a limited owner' would, than, not have been used at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, in this case it was also said that limited ownership in the Hindu woman was a sine qua non for the applicability of Section 14(1) and this requirement stood fully satisfied in the case of a widow to whom property was made over in lieu of maintenance with full rights of enjoyment thereof minus the power of alienation.
RatioOfTheDecision	These were precisely the incidents of limited ownership.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was also said that the enactment of Section 14 was a step in the direction of practical recognition of the equality of the sexes and was meant to elevate women from a subservient position in the economic filed to a pedestal where they could exercise full powers of enjoyment and disposal of property held by them as owners, untrammelled by artificial limitations placed on their rights of ownership by a society in which the will of the dominant male prevailed to bring about a su bjugation of the opposite sex.
Precedent	It was also a step calculated to ensure uniformity in the law relating to the nature of ownership of 'stridhana'.
Precedent	This dual purpose underlying the Explanation to Section 14(1) had to be borne in mind and given effect to when the selection was subjected to analysis and interpretation and Sub-section (2) was not to be given a meaning which would defeat that purpose and negative the legislative intent, if the language used so warranted.
Precedent	A combined reading of the two Sub-sections and the Explanation left no room for doubt that Sub-section (2) did not not operate to take in property acquired by a Hindu woman in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance (which was property specifically included in the enumeration contained in the Explanation) out of the purview of Sub-section (1).
Precedent	16.
Precedent	The reference made by <NAME> and <NAME> to the arbitration of <NAME> records that <NAME> was the widow of <NAME>'s son and had been boarding and lodging with <NAME>.
Precedent	Family disputes had  made the continuance of joint lodging and boarding impossible and <NAME> was appointed arbitrator "to allot property and cost" to <NAME> "for her life for residence and maintenance".
RatioOfTheDecision	There was, therefore, clearly, recognition of <NAME>'s pre- existing right to maintenance.
Fact	The award that <NAME> made gave <NAME> an alternative in respect of the property in which she desired to reside, one at Bidasar and one at Ladnu.
Fact	The award stated that if she chose the property at Ladnu she would receive Rs.
Fact	45,000 in addition, and if she chose the property at Bidasar she would receive Rs.
Fact	37,000 in addition (as also Rs.
Fact	1,000 for constructing certain apartments).
Fact	The award entitled <NAME> to use the property she chose for residence for life and "she can use in any way she likes".
Fact	She was entitled to undertake construction for necessity and convenience, to increase and decrease apartments with her money and to get repairs done.
Fact	The only limitation was that she should not destroy or damage the property.
Fact	<NAME> chose the property at <NAME> for residence and in the deed she executed in that behalf she stated that she would "keep the house and Nohra in my possession and use them in the manner I like".
Fact	17.
Fact	In our view, on a perusal of the terms of reference, the award and the document executed by <NAME> indicating her preference for the <NAME> property, there is no doubt that <NAME> acquired the <NAME> property and the sum of Rs.
Fact	38,000 in lieu of her pre-existing right to maintenance.
Fact	That the award of the property and the money was linked is clear from the fact that the quantum of the money depended upon whether <NAME> chose the <NAME> property or the Ladnu property.
Fact	The award of both property and money was in lieu of her pre-existing right to maintenance.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	Maintenance, as we see it, necessarily must encompass a provision for residence.
Precedent	Maintenance is given so that the lady can live in the manner, more or less, to which she was accustomed.
Precedent	The concept of maintenance must, therefore, includ e provisions for food and clothing and the like and take into account the basic need for a roof over the head.
Precedent	Provision for residence may be made either by giving a lump sum in money, or property in lieu thereof.
Precedent	It may also be made by providing, for the course of the lady's life, a residence and money for other necessary expenditure.
Precedent	Where provision is made in this manner, by giving a life interest in property for the purposes of residence, that provision is made in lieu of a pre-existing right to maintenance and the Hindu lady acquires far more than the vestige of title which is deemed sufficient to attract Section 14(1) .
Precedent	19.
Precedent	We are supported in the view that we take by <NAME>'s Hindu Law (Sixteenth Edition) which sets out the position in law prior to the Act.
Precedent	The Manager of a joint Mitakshara family is under a legal obligation to maintain all male members of the family, their wives and their children.
Precedent	On the death of any one of the male members he is bound to maintain his widow and his children.
Precedent	The obli gation to maintain these persons arises from the fact that the Manager is in possession of the family property (para 543).
Precedent	An heir is legally bound to provide, out of the estate which descends to him, maintenance for those persons whom the late proprietor was legally or morally bound to maintain (para 544).
Precedent	A wife is entitled to be maintained by her <NAME>, whether he possesses property or not.
Precedent	When a man with his eyes open marries a girl accustomed to a certain style of living, he undertakes the obligation of maintaining her in that style (para 554).
Precedent	A widow who does not succeed to the estate of her <NAME> as his heir is entitled to maintenance out of his separate property as well as out of property in which he was a coparcener at the time of his death (para 559).
Precedent	A Hindu widow is, in the absence of special circumstances, entitled to reside in the, family dwelling house in which she lived with her <NAME> (para 562).
Precedent	The maintenance to be allowed to a widow should be such an amount as will enable her to li ve consistently with her position as a widow, with the same degree of comfort and reasonable luxury as she had in her <NAME>'s house, unless there are circumstances which affect, one way or the other, her mode of living there.
Precedent	In determining the amount of maintenance the <ORG> should have regard, inter alia, to the provision and status of the deceased <NAME> and of the widow and the reasonable wants of the widow, including not only the ordinary expenses of living, but what she might reasonably expend for religious and other duties incidental to her station in life (para 566).
Precedent	Where an undivided family consists of two or more males, related as <NAME> and son or otherwise, and one of them dies leaving a widow, she is entitled to reside in the family dwelling house in which she lived with her <NAME>.
Precedent	If the house is sold by the surviving coparceners without necessity, the sale does not affect her right, and the purchaser cannot evict her until another suitable residence is found for her (para 573).
Precedent	A widow wh o is entitled to maintenance may sue, inter alia, for a charge on a specific portion her <NAME>'s estate for her maintenance and residence (para 579).
Precedent	20.
Precedent	The Hindu Adoption & Maintenance Act , 1959, was enacted to amend and codify the law relating to adoptions and maintenance among Hindus, and it defines maintenance in Section 3(d) to include "(i) in all cases, provision for food, clothing, residence, education and medical attendance and treatment."
Precedent	(Emphasis supplied.)
Precedent	21.
Precedent	Under the award provision was made, in lieu of <NAME> preexisting right to maintenance, of money and interest for life in the <NAME> property.
Precedent	<NAME>, therefore, acquired limited ownership rights in the <NAME> property in recognition of her pre-existing right to maintenance.
Precedent	Upon the coming into force of the Act the limited rights acquired by <NAME> in 1934 blossomed into full ownership of the <NAME> property, and she became entitled to sell its 'nohra'.
Precedent	In our view, therefore, <ORG> was in error in the view tha t it took.
Precedent	22.
RulingByPresentCourt	The appeal is allowed.
RulingByPresentCourt	The judgment and order under appeal is set aside the judgment and order of the Sr. Civil Judge, <NAME> is restored.
RulingByPresentCourt	23.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.
