Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: STATE OF WEST BENGAL DATE OF JUDGMENT03/05/1972 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>: <NAME>, <NAME>, J.M.
Fact	CITATION: 1972 AIR 1656 1973 SCR (1) 546 1972 SCC (3) 831 CITATOR INFO : R 1973 SC 295 (7) R 1974 SC1214 (3) RF 1975 SC 953 (4,5) R 1987 SC 998 (6) R 1987 SC2332 (12) R 1990 SC 220 (7) R 1990 SC1086 (18) RF 1992 SC 979 (10) ACT: Maintenance of Internal Security Act (26 of 1971), s. 3- Maintenance of public order,' scope of.
Fact	HEADNOTE: The petitioner and his associates attacked a <NAME> and wife with open knives in the third class compartment of a running train and robbed them of valuable property by putting them in fear of death on one occasion, and on another occasion, attacked a police party on the platform of a railway station with bombs.
Fact	dagger$, knives and iron rods and exploded bombs with a view to kill the police party.
Fact	The petitioner was detained by an order under s. 3 of the Maintenance of Internal Security Act 1971 with a view to preventing him from act ing in any manner Prejudicial to the maintenance of public order, and the 'grounds of detention were that the two incidents created terror and panic among passengers and disturbed public order.
Fact	The, petitioner challenged the order of detention in this Court.
Fact	Dismissing the petition.
Fact	HELD : Both the incidents referred to in the order affected public order and not merely law and order.
Fact	[550 E-F] The question whether a man only committed a breach of law and order or has act-ad in a manner likely to cause disturbance of the public order, is a question of degree and the extent of the reach of the act upon the society.
Fact	The test to be adopted in determining whether an act affects law and order or public order is : Does it lead to disturbance of the current of life of the community so as to amount to a ,disturbance of the public order or does it affect merely an individual leaving the tranquillity of the society undisturbed ?
Fact	When two passengers are robbed at the point of knives while travelling in a third class comp artment of a running train the act affects riot only the passengers who are deprived of their valuables but also the other passengers who are watching in fear as helpless spectators.
Fact	Likewise, the attack against the police party on the platform of a railway station by exploding bombs is bound to create panic and confusion among the passengers at the railway station.
Fact	Consequently, there is bound to be terror and panic amongst the travelling public.
Fact	Therefore, the acts in question, in the very nature of things, would adversely affect the even tempo of life of the community and cause a general disturbance of public tranquillity.
Fact	[550 A- F] <NAME> and ors.
Fact	v. State of West Bengal, A.I.R.
Fact	1972 S.C. 840. followed.
Fact	<CITATION_1733535> ,  1 S.C.R.
Fact	709, .
Fact	<CITATION_675104> ,  3 S.C.R.
Fact	288, <CITATION_1633269> ,  1 S.C.C.
Fact	498, <NAME> @ <NAME> @ <NAME> v. State of West Bengal, W.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	15 of 1972, decided on March 11, 1972.
Fact	<CITATION_760835> .,  3 S.C.R.
Fact	360 and <NAME> v. State of West Ben gal, W.P.
Fact	35 of 1967 decided on May 2, 1972, referred to.
Fact	547 JUDGMENT:  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition No.
Fact	46 of 1972.
Fact	<NAME>, for the, petitioner.
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME>, for the respondent.
Fact	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, J.
Fact	This is a petition through jail under article 32 of the Constitution for issuing a writ of habeas cot-pus by <NAME>, who has been ordered by the District Magistrate 24Parganas to be detained under section 3 of the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971 (Act 26 of 1971) "with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order."
Fact	The order of detention was made by the District Magistrate on November 13, 1971.
Fact	The petitioner was arrested in pursuance of the detention order on November 14, 1971 and was served the same day with the order as well as the grounds of detention together with vernacular translation thereof.
Fact	On November 18,1971 the District Magistrate sent report to the  State Government about the passing of the detention order along with the grounds of detention and other necessary particulars.
Fact	<ORG> considered the matter and approved the detention order on November 24, 1971.
Fact	Necessary report was also sent on that day by <ORG> to <ORG>.
Fact	On December 13, 1971 <ORG> placed the case of the petitioner before <ORG>.
Fact	In the meanwhile, on December 12, 1971 <ORG> received a representation of the petitioner.
Fact	The representation was considered by <ORG> and was rejected on January 11, 1972.
Fact	The representation was thereafter forwarded to <ORG>.
Fact	The <ORG>, after considering the, material placed before it, including the petitioner's representation, and after hearing the petitioner in person, sent its report to <ORG> on January 14, 1972.
Fact	Opinion was expressed, by the <ORG> that there was sufficient cause for the detention of the petitioner.
Fact	On February 2, 1972  the <ORG> Government confirmed the order for the detention of the petitioner.
Fact	Communication about the confirmation of the order was thereafter sent to the petitioner.
Fact	Affidavit of <NAME>, District Magistrate of 24- Parganas, who passed the impugned order, has been filed in opposition to the Petition.
Fact	Mr. <NAME> has argued the case amicus curiae on behalf of the petitioner, while the <ORG> has been represented by Mr. <NAME>.
Fact	548  It has been argued on behalf of the petitioner that the particular acts on account of which the order for the detention of the petitioner has been made were not germane to the maintenance of public order and, as such, the order for his detention could not be validly made for preventing him from acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.
Fact	In this respect we find that according to the grounds of detention, the order for the petitioner s detention was made on the ground that he had been acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public o rder as evidenced by the particulars given below; taken separately or collectively "That on 26-9-71 at about 18.30 hours while <NAME> of Champapukur, P.S.
Fact	Basirhat, District 24- Parganas along with his wife were travelling ill a 3rd class compartment of <ORG> local train from Barasat, You along with your associates attacked him and his wife with open knives between Champapukur R/s and Basirhat R/S and robbed them of Wrist Watch, Gold Ornaments, Cash valued at Rs.
Fact	725//- by putting them in fear of death.
Fact	By your such activities you created terror and panic among the travelling passengers and public order was disturbed thereby.
Fact	On 4-11-71. at about 21.40 hours, you and your associates armed with bombs, daggers, knives and iron rods etc.
Fact	attacked police on the platform at Beliagliata railway station with a view to take their lives and to intimidate the public you charged two bombs which exploded with terrible sound endangering the on-duty police.
Fact	Your such action was so violent that it crea ted panic and confusion among the passengers there then.
Fact	YOU have thus action in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order."
Fact	It would appear from the above that the petitioner and his associates attacked a <NAME> and wife with open knives in the, third class compartment of a running train and robbed them of valuable property, including wrist watch, gold ornaments and cash by putting them in fear of death.
Fact	The grounds of detention further show that the above act of the petitioner and his associates created terror and panic among the travelling passengers and thereby disturbed public order.
Fact	The second incident which took place at 9.40 p.m. on November 4, 1971 related to the attack by the petitioner and his associates on a police party on the platform of Belighata railway station with a view to kill them.
Fact	The petitioner and his associates are stated to have been then armed with bombs.
Fact	daggers, knives and iron rods and they exploded two bombs with terrible sound.
Argument	It is further stated that the abov e act of the petitioner and his associates created panic and confusion among the passengers and thus disturbed public order.
Argument	Each one of the above two incidents of September 26, 1971 and November 4, 1971, in our opinion, affected public order and not merely law and order.
Argument	The distinction between the concept of public order and that of law and order has been adverted to by this <ORG> in a number of cases.
Argument	In the case of <CITATION_1733535> (1), <NAME> (as he then was) said that any contravention of law always affected order, but before it could be said to affect public order, it must affect the community at large.
Argument	He considered three concepts, law and order, public order and the security of the <ORG>, and observed that to appreciate the scope and extent of each one of them, one should imagine the concentric circles.
Fact	The largest of them represented law and order, next represented public order and the smallest represented the security order, just asan act might affect public order but not the security o f the <ORG>.In the subsequent case of <CITATION_675104> 2 the <ORG> dealt with the matter in the following words: "Public order is the even tempo of the life of the community taking the country as a whole or even a specified locality.
Fact	Disturbance of public order is to be distinguished from acts directed against individuals which do not disturb the society to the extent of causing a general disturbance, of public tranquility.
Precedent	It is the degree of disturbance and its effect upon the life of the community in a locality which determines whether thedisturbance amounts only to a breach of law and order.
Precedent	Take for instance, a man stabs another.
Precedent	People may be shocked and even disturbed, but the life of the community keeps moving at an even tempo, however much one may dislike the act.
Precedent	Take another case of a town where there is communal tension.
Precedent	A man stabs a member of' the other community.
Precedent	This is an act of a very different sort.
Precedent	Its implications are deeper and it affects the even tempo of life and public order is jeopa rdized because the repercussions of the act embrace large sections of the community and incite them to make further breaches of the law and order and to subvert the public order.
Precedent	An Act by itself is not determinant of its own gravity.
Precedent	In its quality it may not differ from another but in its poten- tiality it may be very different."
Precedent	(1)[1966] 1 S.C.R.
Precedent	709.
Precedent	(2) [1970] 3 S.C.R.
Precedent	288 The question where a man has only committed a breach of law and order or has acted in a manner likely to cause a disturbance ,of the public order, according to the dictum laid down in the above case is a question of degree and the extent of the reach of the act upon the society.
RatioOfTheDecision	Public order is what the French call "order publique" and is something more than ordinary maintenance of law and order.
RatioOfTheDecision	The test to be adopted in determining whether an act affects law and order or public order, as laid down in the above ,,case, is : Does it lead to disturbance of the current of life of the community so as to amount to a disturbance of the p ublic order ,or does it affect merely an individual leaving the tranquility of the society undisturbed ?
RatioOfTheDecision	The principle enunciated above has been followed by this Court in the case of <CITATION_1633269> (1) and <NAME>, <NAME> @ Pagla v. State of West Bengal (WP No.
RatioOfTheDecision	15 of 1972, decided on March II, 1972.)
RatioOfTheDecision	In the light of what has been observed above, we have no doubt that each one of the incidents of September 26, 1971 and November 4, 1971 was prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.
RatioOfTheDecision	When two passengers are robbed at the point of knife while travelling in a third class compartment of a running train, the act of the miscreants affects not only the passengers who are deprived ,of their valuables but also the other passengers who watch tile whole thing in fear as helpless spectators.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is bound to be- consequent terror and panic amongst the travelling public.
RatioOfTheDecision	Like wise, attack directed against a police party on the platform of railway station by exploring bombs is bound to create panic  an.
RatioOfTheDecision	confusion among the passengers at the railway station.
RatioOfTheDecision	The act' in question in the very nature of things would adversely affect the even tempo of life of the community and cause a general disturbance of public tranquility.
Precedent	Reference has been made on behalf of the petitioner to the ,case of <CITATION_760835> nr.
Precedent	(2).
Precedent	The petitioner in that case along with others committed various acts on three occasions.
Precedent	On the first occasion lie attached the people of a locality with a knife and by hurling bottles at them.'
Precedent	On the other two.occasions he attacked the people of another locality by hurling bombs at them..
Precedent	It was held that the incidents were not interlinked and could not have prejudiced tile- maintenance of public order.
Precedent	As against the above solitary decision, Mr. <NAME> on behalf of the respondent-State has referred to the principle laid down in the case of <CITATION_675104> (supra) as well as in the case of <CITATION_1633269> (supra).
Precedent	Apart from those two cases, we find that in the (2)  3 S.C.R.
Precedent	360.
Precedent	(1) [1972] I S.C.R.
Precedent	498.
Precedent	551  case of <NAME> and <NAME>.
Precedent	v. State of West Bengal(1) the allegation against the detenu was that he along with other associates committed robbery in respect of a fat, and a watch at the point of dagger in a running train, and this created disturbance of public order.
Argument	Contention was raised that the act of the detenu and his associates related only to law and order and not to public order.
Argument	This contention was repelled and it was observed that the innocent passengers would be terror stricken by the acts of the detenu and his associates.
Fact	Another incident which was referred to in that case related to throwing of bombs on a shop.
Fact	The bombs exploded and as a result of the panic so caused in the locality, all the shops and houses around the place were closed.
Fact	The above round was held by this Court to be germane to the disturbance of public order.
Precedent	In case of <NAME> (supra), the ground of detention recited that the detenu and his associates while committing theft of r ice from a wagon threw bombs upon the members of <ORG>.
Precedent	One member of <ORG> was injured.
Precedent	The explosion of the bombs was stated to have created panic in the station, area and the adjoining locality.
Precedent	It was held that the activity of the petitioner created not merely a question of the maintenance of law and order but created a disturbance which would be comprehended by the, expression " order publique".
Precedent	The detention order was consequently upheld.
Precedent	<CITATION_1128798> .
Fact	35 of 1972 decided on May 2, 1972) the allegation against the detenu was that he and his associates while removing railway material charged bombs and ballast upon <ORG> as a consequence of which the members of <ORG> fired in self-defence.
Fact	The activity of the petitioner was considered to be prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and the detention order was upheld.
Fact	The facts of the present case are much more akin to those of <NAME> and <ORG>.
Fact	v. State of West Bengal (su pra).
RatioOfTheDecision	The past activities of the petitioner as revealed in the grounds of detention, in our opinion, showed a propensity to disturb public order.
RatioOfTheDecision	The authority concerned, in the circumstances, could have validly made the order for the detention of the petitioner to prevent him from acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.
RulingByPresentCourt	The petition consequently fails and is dismissed.
Precedent	V.P.S.
Precedent	Petition dismissed.
Precedent	(1) A I.R.
Precedent	1972 S. C. 840.
Precedent	552
