Fact	PETITIONER: NAGAR RICE & FLOUR MIILLS & ORS.
Fact	Vs. RESPONDENT: <NAME> & BROS. & ORS.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 27/02/1970 BENCH: <NAME>, J.C.
Fact	BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, A.N.
Fact	CITATION: 1971 AIR 246 1970 SCR (3) 846 1970 SCC (1) 575 CITATOR INFO : F 1976 SC 578 (50) R 1992 SC 443 (8) ACT: Rice Milling Industry (Regulation) Act , 1958 - Shifting of existing rice mill to new site-Prior permission under s. 8 (3) (c) how far necessary-Considerations in giving such permission-Another mill situated near new site objecting that its business would be adversely affected- Objection whether sustainable under Art.
Fact	19(1)(g) of Constitution--Locus standi of party making such objection.
Fact	HEADNOTE: According to s. 8(3)(c) of the Rice Milling Industry (Regulation) Act, 1958, no owner of a rice mill "shall without the previous permission of <ORG>, change the location of the whole or any part of that rice mill in respect of which licence has been granted under s. 6 ".
Fact	The lands and buildings of the appel lants' rice mill in the State of Mysore were acquired under the Land Acquisition Act 1894 and the award expressly recited that the appellants were entitled to remove the machinery of the mill.
Fact	The appellants were allotted a new site by the Mysore Gov- ernment.
Fact	After obtaining sanction from the Tehsildar the appellant shifted their machinery to the new site.
Fact	Thereafter the Director of Food and Civil Supplies in purported exercise, of the delegated powers of <ORG> passed an order under s. 8(3)(c) sanctioning a change in the location of the appellants' rice mill.
Fact	He overruled the objection of the respondents whose rice mill was situated near the new site.
Fact	The, respondents challenged the order before <ORG> in a writ petition.
Fact	<ORG> having allowed the same the appellant obtained special leave and appealed to this Court.
RulingByLowerCourt	The questions that fell for consideration were : (i) whether the shifting of the appellants' rice mill to the new site without prior permission of <ORG> ernment as required by s. 8(3) (c) of the Act,- was legal, and if not whether it affected the respondents' right under Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	19(1) (g) of the Constitution; (ii) whether the order under s. 8 (3) (c) was bad for the reason that it did not take into consideration the relevant factors such as mentioned in s. 5(4) of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	HELD : (i) Section 8(3) (c) is merely regulatory : if it was not complied with the appellants may probably be exposed to a penalty, but a competitor in the business could not seek to prevent the appellants from exercising their right to carry on business, because of the default, nor could the rice mill of the appellants be regarded as a new rice mill.
RatioOfTheDecision	Competition in the trade or business may be subject to such restrictions as are permissible and are imposed by the <ORG> by a law enacted in the interests of the general public under Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	19(6 ), but a person cannot claim independently of such restriction that another person shall not carry on business or trade so as to affect his trade or busine ss adversely.
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellants ,complied with the statutory requirements for carrying on rice milling operations in the building on the new site.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even assuming that no previous permission was obtained, the respondents would have no locus standi for challenging the grant of the permission, because no right vested in the respondents was infringed.
RatioOfTheDecision	[851 G-H] (ii) The considerations which arc prescribed by sub-s. (4) of s. 5 only apply to the grant of a permit in respect of a new rice mill or a defunct 84 7 rice mill.
RatioOfTheDecision	They have no application in considering the shifting the location of an existing -rice mill.
RatioOfTheDecision	In respect of a new or defunct mill a permit and a licence are both required : in respect of an existing rice mill only a licence is required.
RatioOfTheDecision	The conditions prescribed by sub-s. (4) of s. 5 only apply to the grant of a permit and not a licence.
RatioOfTheDecision	By s. 8 (3) (c) it is made one of the conditions of the licence that the location of the rice mill shall not be shifted without the previous permission of <ORG>  Government.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that the appropriate authority clothed with the power must consider the expediency of permitting a change of location.
RatioOfTheDecision	But there is no statutory obligation imposed upon him to take into consideration the matters prescribed by sub-s. (4) of s. 5 in granting the permission to change the location.
RatioOfTheDecision	[852 E-G] On the facts of the present case the permission granted under s. 8 (3) (c) could not be said to be granted without considering the relevant circumstances.
Precedent	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.
Precedent	2228 of1969.
Precedent	Appeal by special leave from the judgment, and order dated September 26, 1969 of the Mysore <ORG> in Writ Petition No.
Precedent	496 of 1969.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for the appellants.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, and <NAME>, for respondent No.
Precedent	1.
Precedent	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, J.
Argument	This appeal is filed with special leave against the judgment of the <ORG> of Mysore setting aside th e order dated January 20, 1969, of <ORG> under the Rice Milling Industry (Regulation) Act 21 of 1958.
Argument	The appellants established a rice mill many years ago in village Mudugoppa, District Shimoga, in the former Indian State of Mysore and carried on milling operations.
Fact	The respondents-<ORG>-established in 1963 a rice mill in village Kelandur at a distance of about 11/2 miles from the site of the appellant's mill.
Fact	A notification under the Land Acquisition Act 1894 was issued in March 1966 for compulsory acquisition of the land and buildings on the site of the appellants' rice mill for use in <ORG>.
Fact	In October 1967 an award acquiring the land and buildings was made.
Fact	The award expressly recited that the appellants were entitled to remove the machinery of the rice Mill.
Fact	The appellants in the meanwhile applied to <ORG> to allot them a suitable new site in  which their rice mill may be located.
Fact	<NAME> sanctioned that the rice mill building may be shifted to a site in Survey No.
Fact	233 of Mudugoppa granted to the appellants by the State of Mysore.
Fact	By order dated January 20, 1969, <ORG> passed an order sanctioing the change in the location of the appellants' rice mill from its original site to the new site "as per the provisions contained in section 8(3)(c) of the Rice Milling Industry (Regulation) Act, 1958", and rejected the objection raised by the respondents.
Argument	The respondents then moved a petition in -the High Court of Mysore for a direction quashing the order dated January 20, 1969 passed by <ORG> on the plea that the appellant' s mill was moved to a place in the vicinity of their rice mill in the kelandur village in contravention of ss.
Argument	5 and 8 of the Rice Milling Industry (Regulation) Act, 1958, and in consequence of the removal of the appellants' mill "their bus iness was likely to.
Argument	be adversely affected".
Argument	<ORG> held that permission under S. 9 (3) (c) was a condition precedent to the shifting of the location of the rice mill, and since the appellants did not obtain the previous permission to shift the mill, the order of the Director was liable to be "struck down as ultra vires".
Argument	In the view of the <ORG>, by the shifting of the appellants' rice mill the respondents' business was directly affected and they had a right to challenge the legality of the order.
Argument	<ORG> upheld the claim of the respondents on the sole ground, that the order of the Director was made in violation of the mandatory in junction of the Rice Milling Industry (Regulation) Act 21 of 1958 and it prejudicially affected the business of the respondents as rice-millers.
Statute	The <ORG> enacted the Rice Milling Industry (Regulation) Act 21 of 1958 to regulate rice milling.
Statute	By s. 3(a) a "defunct rice-mill" is defined as meaning "a rice- mill in existence at the commencement of this Act but i n which rice-Milling operations have not been carried on for a period exceeding one year prior to such commencement".
Statute	By S. 3(b) "existing rice-mill" means cc a rice mill carrying on rice-milling operations at the commencement of this Act, and includes a rice-mill in existence at such commencement which is not carrying on rice-milling operations but in which rice-milling operations have been carried on at -any time within a period of one year prior to such commence- ment".
Statute	By s. 2(e) "new rice-mill" means "a rice will other than an existing rice mill or a defunct rice mill".
Statute	By s. 2 (f ) "rice mill" is defined as meaning "the plant and Machinery with which and the premises, including the precincts thereof in which or in any part of which, rice- milling operations is carried on."
Statute	By S. 5 provision is made for grant of permits in respect of new or defunct rice mill.
Statute	By sub-s. (1) of S. 5 it is provided that any person or authority may make an application to <ORG> for the grant of permit for the  establishment of a new rice mill,, and any owner of a defunct rice mill may, make a like application for the grant of a permit for re- commencing rice-milling operation in such mill.
Statute	By sub-s. (3) if, on receipt of any such application for the grant of'  -a permit, <ORG> is of opinion that it is necessary so to do for ensuring adequate supply of rice, it may, subject to the provisions of sub-s. (4) and sub-s. (5) grant the permit specifying therein the period within which the mill is to be established.
Statute	Subsection (4) provides -  "Before granting any permit under sub-section (3), <ORG> shall cause a full and complete investigation to be made in the prescribed manner in respect of the application -and shall have due regard to-  (a) the number of rice mills operating in the locality;  (b) the availability of paddy in the locality;  (c) the availability of power 'and water supply for the.
Statute	rice mill in respect of which a permit is applied for;  (d) whether the rice mill in respec t of which a permit is -applied for will, be of the huller type, sheller type or combined sheller- huller type;  (e) Whether the functioning of the rice mill in respect of which a permit is applied for would cause substantial unemployment in the locality;  (f) such other particulars as may be prescribed."
Statute	By sub-s. (6) a permit granted under s. 5 is effective for the period specified therein or for such extended period as <ORG> may think fit to allow in any case.
Statute	Section 6 provides for grant of licences.
Statute	Any owner of an existing rice mill or of a rice mill in respect of which a permit has been granted under S. 5 may make an application to the licensing officer for the giant of a licence for carrying on rice-milling operations in that rice mill.
Statute	By sub-s. (3) of s. 6 the licensing officer is obliged to grant the licence on payment of the fee and on deposit of such sum as may be prescribed.'
Statute	-as security for due performance of the conditions.
Statute	By sub-s. (4) a licence granted under s. 6 is valid  for the period specified therein, and may be renewed from time to time for such period and on, payment of such fees and on conditions as may be prescribed.
Statute	850  Section 7 provides for revocation, suspension and amendment of licences.
Statute	By S. 8 restrictions are placed on rice mills.
Statute	Under Sub-s. (1) no person or authority shall, after the commencement of the Act, establish any new rice mill except under and in accordance with 'a permit granted under S. 5 .
Statute	By sub-s. (2) no owner of a rice mill shall, after the comencement of the Act, carry on rice-milling operation excent under and in accordance with a licence.granted under S. 6.
Statute	By sub-s. (3), insofar as it is relevant, it is provided "No owner of a rice mill,(a)  (b)  (c) shall, without the previous permissions of <ORG>, change the location of the whole or any part of the rice mill in respect of which a licence has been granted under section 6 ;  ' Section 13 provides for penalties for contravention or attempts to contravene or abetting the  contravention of any of the provisions, inter alia, of s. 8 .
Fact	Power of <ORG> to issue a permit under s. 5 and under s. 8 (3)  (c) to change the location of Tice mill is delegated to the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> sanctioned, in exercise of the power under s. 8 (3) (c) of the Act that the location of the rice mill of the appellants may be shifted.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> declared the order invalid on the ground that the previous sanction had not been obtained.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Court observed that "where an officer granting a licence or passing an administrative order exceeds his powers and makes an order in violation of the provision which ,clothes him with that power, his order is liable to be struck down", and since S. 8 (3) (c) contemplated grant of permission for change of location before the plant and the machinery were actually shifted to a new site, the <ORG> had no power to grant permission after the machinery and plant had been shif ted.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rice mills for the purpose of the Act were divided into three classes : defunct rice-mills, existing rice-mills and new rice-mills.
RatioOfTheDecision	Defunct rice mills are those which had ceased functioning for a period exceeding one year prior to the commencement of the Act; existing rice mills 'are 'those which carry on rice milling operations -at the commencement of tile Act or had carried on rice milling 8 51 operations within one year prior to the commencement of the Act; and new rice-mills are those which are other than existing rice mills or defunct rice mills.
RatioOfTheDecision	In respect of all rice mills a licence for carrying on rice milling operations under S. 6 must be obtained.
RatioOfTheDecision	In respect of a rice mill new or defunct a permit under s. 5 has first to be obtained.
RatioOfTheDecision	No permit is required by and existing rice mill.
RatioOfTheDecision	In granting the permit the authority has to take into consi- deration matters which are specified in sub-s. (4) of s. 5 .
RatioOfTheDecision	The licensing authority must on application issue a licence to an existing rice mill or a  rice mill in respect of which a permit has been granted under s. 5 .
RatioOfTheDecision	For change in the location of any rice mill in respect of which a licence hasbeen granted under s. 6 the previous permission of <ORG> is necessary under S. 8 (3) (c).
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> has by the Rice Milling Industry (Regulation) Act , 1958, prescribed limitations that an existing rice mill shall carry on business only after obtaining a licence and if the rice mill is to be shifted from its existing location, previous permission of <ORG> shall be obtained.
Argument	Permission for shiftng their rice mill was obtained by the appellants from <ORG>.
Argument	The appellants had not started rice milling operations before the sanction of <ORG> was obtained.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if it be assumed that the previous sanction has to be obtained from the authorities before the machinery is moved from its existing site, we fail to appreciate what grievance the respondents may raise against the  grant of, permission by the authority permitting the installation of machinery on a new site.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right to carry on business being a fundamental right under Art.
Precedent	19(1 ) (g) of the Constitution, its exercise is subject only to the restrictions imposed by law in the interests of the general public under Art.
Precedent	19 (6) (i).
Precedent	Section 8 (3) (c) is merely regulatory : if it is not complied with the appellants may probably be exposed to a penalty, but a competitor in the business cannot seek to prevent the appellants from exercising their right to carry on business, because of the default, nor can the rice mill of the appellants be regard as a new rice mill.
Precedent	Competition in the trade or business may be subject to such restrictions as are permissible and are imposed by the <ORG> by a law enacted in the interests of the general public under Art.
Precedent	19 (6 ), but a person cannot claim independently of such restriction that another person shall not carry on business or trade so as to affect his trade or business adversely.
Argument	The  appellants complied with the statutory requirements for carrying on rice milling operations in the building on the new site.
Argument	Even assuming that no previous permission was obtained, the respondents would have no locus standi for challeng-  852  ing the grant of the permission, because no right vested in the respondents was infringed.
Argument	But Mr. <NAME> for the respondents contended that in granting the permission under s. 8 (3 ) (c) the authority was bound to take into account matters which -govern the issue of a permit under s. 5 (4) of the Act.
Argument	Counsel submitted that sub-s. (3) (c) of s. 8 was enacted with a view to ensure adequate mining facilities and to prevent unfair competition and on that account it is provided that when the location of an, existing rice mill has to be shifted, the authority had to take into consideration the number of rice mills operating in the locality; the availability of power and water supply for the rice mill in respect of which a permit is applied for; whether the functioning of  the rice mill in respect of which a permit is applied for would cause substantial unemployment in the locality; and such other particulars as may be prescribed.
Argument	According to counsel, since the Act was intended to regulate the carrying on of business of rice mills in the country, it was implicit in s. 8 (3) (c) that the authority sanctioning the change of location of a rice mill shall consider whether ' another person was by the shifting likely to be prejudiced thereby.
Argument	'This counsel says, the Director did not consider, and on that account the order is liable to be set aside because the right of the respondents is infringed.
RatioOfTheDecision	This argument was not advanced before <ORG>, and, in our judgment, has no substance.
RatioOfTheDecision	The considerations which are prescribed by sub-s. (4) of s. 5 only apply to the grant of  -a permit in respect of a new rice mill or a defunct rice mill.
RatioOfTheDecision	They have no application in considering the shifting the location of an existing rice mill.
RatioOfTheDecision	In respect of a new or defunct rice mill a permit a nd a licence are both required : in respect of an existing rice mill only a licence is required.
RatioOfTheDecision	The conditions prescribed by sub-s. (4) of s. 5 only apply to the grant of -a permit and not to a licence.
RatioOfTheDecision	By s. 8 (3) (c) it is made one of the conditions of the licence that the location of the rice mill shall not be shifted without the previous permission of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that the appropriate authority clothed with the power must consider the expediency of permitting a change of location.
Argument	But there is no statutory obligation imposed upon him to take into consideration the matters prescribed by sub-s. (4) of s. 5 in granting' the permission to change the location.
Argument	The appellants had been carrying on business in milling rice for more than 30 years and the mill was by reason of the proposal to submerge the site in the Sharawathi Hydro- Electric Project had to be shifted from its location.
Argument	The <ORG> allotted another piece of land to the appellants and did not acquire their machinery and permit ted erection of their rice mill building on the new location.
Precedent	This was done with a view to cause minimum hardship to the appel-  853  lants arising in consequence of the proposed construction of the dam resulting in submergence of their land.
Precedent	The <ORG> also granted permission to the appellants to change the location under the Rice Milling Industry (Regulation) Act , 1958.
RulingByPresentCourt	The permission cannot be said to be granted without consideration of the relevant circumstances.
RulingByPresentCourt	The appeal is allowed, -and the petition filed by the respondent <ORG> is ordered to be dismissed with costs throughout in favour of the appellants.
Precedent	G.C.
Precedent	Appeal allowed.
Precedent	85 4
