Fact	PETITIONER: COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, <NAME><NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: <NAME> AND <NAME> CONTRACTOR CO.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT15/01/1971 BENCH: <NAME>, A.N.
Fact	BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>, J.C. <NAME>, K.S.
Fact	CITATION: 1971 AIR 1015 1971 SCR (3) 365 1971 SCC (1) 280 CITATOR INFO : E 1984 SC 684 (34) ACT: Income-tax Act , 1922, s. 26A -Income-tax Rules, r. 2(b)-- Indian Partnership Act , 1932, ss.
Fact	58 , 59 , 69-Rule  2(b) providing that in respect of firms registered under Partnership Act the application for registration of firm u/s 26 A of the Income-tax Act shall be made before the end of the previous year-Firm can be said to be registered under Partnership Act nor on date of receipt of application under ss.
Fact	58 but when entry is made in register of firms under s. 59-If such an entry is made after end of 'previous year' firm is not registered under the Partners-ship Act for the purpose of r. 2(b).
Fact	HEADNOTE: The assessee firm was constituted under a deed of partnership dated October 6, 1955.
RulingByLowerCourt	It was to c ome into existence with effect from November 5, 1954.
Fact	The assessee filed an application under s. 26 A of the Act for registration of the firm for the assessment year 1956-57.
Fact	The previous year of the firm was shown as the year ending October 26, 1955.
Fact	The application was received by the Income-tax Officer on October 14, 1955.
Fact	On October 20, 1955 the assessee filed before <NAME> a statement under s. 58 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.
Fact	On November 2, 1955 <NAME> filed the statement of the assessee and made entries in the register of firms.
Fact	On March 23, 1961 the Income-tax Officer passed an order refusing to register the firm under s. 26-6A .
Fact	inter-alia for the reason that the application had not been made in time.
Fact	The appeal taken to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner failed.
Fact	The <ORG> also upheld the order of the authorities below.
Fact	In reference <ORG> answered the question in favour of the assessee holding that the partnership should be deemed to have been regis tered on the date when the application was presented and that the requirement of r. 2(b) of the Rules would be satisfied if it became registered under the Partnership Act even after the 'application under s. 26A was filed.
Fact	in appeal by the <ORG>.
Fact	HELD : (i) The view taken by <ORG> was not correct.
Fact	Under the Partnership law it can be taken to have been settled by decision,-, of <ORG>, from a long time that the registration of firm takes place only when necessary entries are made in the register of firms under s. 59 of the Partnership Act by the Registrar.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 58 of the Act no doubt employs language which, without anything more may appear to lend support to the view that the registration of a firm may be effected merely by sending an application which would mean that as soon as an application is sent and if entry is made under s. 59 pursuant to it the registration would be effective from the date when the application was presented.
Fact	But s. 58(2) is not to be read in isolation and has to be c onsidered along with the scheme of the other provisions of the Act viz.
Fact	ss.
Precedent	59 and 69.
Precedent	The latter section which deals with the effect of non-registration throws light on what was contemplated by the <ORG> with regard to the point of time when the firm could be regarded as registered.
Precedent	[368 <CITATION_1003248> , A.I.R.
Precedent	1935 All.
Precedent	898, Danmal Parshomadas v. <NAME>, I.L.R.
Precedent	58 All.
Precedent	495 and <CITATION_1592277> - tax, Kerala 51 I.T.R.
Precedent	711, approved.
Precedent	366 (ii) The views expressed by <ORG> appointed by <ORG> in respect of the Bill which came to be passed by <ORG> as the Partnership Act were irrelevant for the purpose of construing the provisions of the Act.
Precedent	[1369B] JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.
Precedent	545 of 1967.
Precedent	Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 15, 1966 of <ORG> in Case Referred No.
Precedent	40 of 1963.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, for the .appellant.
Precedent	<NAME>, for  the respondent.
Precedent	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, J.
Fact	This is an appeal from a judgment of <ORG> arising out of a reference made under S. 66(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1922, hereinafter called the 'Act' of the question whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the application under s. 26A of the Act was filed out of time The facts are not in dispute.
Fact	The assessee firm was consti- tuted under a deed of partnership dated October 6, 1955.
Fact	It was to come into existence with effect from November 5, 1954.
Fact	The assessee filed an application under S. 26A of the Act for registration of the firm for the assessment year 1956-57.
Fact	The 'previous year' of the firm was shown as the year, ending October 26, 1955.
Fact	This application was received by the Income-tax Officer on October 14, 1955.
Fact	On October 20.
Fact	1955 the assessee filed before <ORG> a statement under s. 58 of the Indian Partnership Act 1932.
Fact	On November 2, 1955 <ORG> filed the stat ement of the assessee and made entries in the registrar of firms.
Fact	On March 23, 1961 the Income-tax Officer passed an order refusing to register the firm under s. 26A inter alia, for the reason that the application had not been made in time.
Fact	The appeal taken to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner by the assessee failed.
Fact	<ORG> also upheld the order of the Income-tax Officer and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
Fact	On that a reference was sought and <ORG> answered the question-referred in favour of the asses,see on the ground that the application had been filed in time.
Fact	Section 26A of the Act provides that an application may be made to the Income-tax Officer on behalf of any firm constituted under an instrument of partnership specifying the individual shares of the partners for registration for the purposes of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The application has to be made by such person or persons and at such time and has to contain such particulars etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	as may be prescribed.
RatioOfTheDecision	Rules 2 to 6(b) of t he Rules made under s. 59 of the Act deal with registration of firms.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are concerned with the following material portion of Rule 2.
RatioOfTheDecision	"Such application shall........ be .... made ....  (a) Where the firm is not registered under the Indian Partnership Act , 1932 (IX of 1932) or or where the deed of Partnership is not registered under the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (XVI of 1908), and the application for registration is being made for the first time under the Act,  (i) Within a period of six months of the constitution of the firm or before the end of the 'previous year' of the firm whichever is earlier, if the firm was constituted in that previous year,  (ii) before the end of the previous year in any other case;  (b) Where the firm is registered under the Indian Partnership Act , 1932 (IX of 1.932) or where the need of partnership is registered under the Indian Registration Act (XVI of 1908) before, the end of the previous year of the firm........"  Now it is common ground that the application for registrat ion was not made within the period prescribed by rule 2(a).
RatioOfTheDecision	What has been urged throughout on behalf of the assessee is that the application to the Income-tax Officer was governed by rule 2(b) and was in time as the firm should be deemed to have been registered not on the date on which it was actually registered by the <ORG>trar of Firms but with effect from the date on which the application for registration was presented to the <ORG>trar.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words the firm should be considered to have been registered on October 20, 1955 on which date the statement under s. 58 of the Partnership Act was filed by the assessee before the <ORG>trar of Firms.
RatioOfTheDecision	The real question which has to be determined is whether the registration of a firm under the Partnership Act takes place with effect from the date on which the application for registration is made in accordance with s. 5  8 of that Act.
Statute	Section 5  8 ( 1 ) provides that the registration of a firm may be effected at any time by sending by post or delivering to the <ORG> trar of the area in which any place of business of the firm is situated or proposed to be situated a statement in the prescribed form and accom-  368  panied by the prescribed fee stating........
Statute	Under S. 59 when the Registrar is satisfied that the provisions of S. 58 have been duly complied with he shall record an entry of the statement in a registrar called the "register of firms' and shall file the statement.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1003248> (1) it was laid down that the registration of a firm under the Pertnership Act takes place only when the necessary entry is made in the register of firms, Even under s. 69 of the Partnership Act which deals with the effect of non- registration it has been consistently held that the registration of a firm subsequent to the filing of the suit did not cure the defect; See <NAME> v. <NAME>).
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus under the Partnership law it can be taken to have been settled by decisions of High Courts from a long time that the registration of a firm takes place only when the n ecessary entry is made in the register of firms under s. 59 of the Partnership Act by the Registrar.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that sub-section (1) of s. 58 employs language which without anything more may land support to the view that the registration of a firm may be effected merely by sending an application which would mean that as soon as an application is sent and if entry is made under s. 59 pursuant to it the registration would be effective from the date when the application was presented.
RatioOfTheDecision	But s. 58(1) is not to be read in isolation and has to be considered along with the scheme of the other provisions of the Act, namely, s. 59 and s. 69 .
RatioOfTheDecision	The latter section may not have a direct bearing on the point under our consideration but it throws light on what was contemplated by the legislature with regard to the point of time when the firm could be regarded as registered.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> has in <CITATION_1592277> (1), clearly expressed the view that reading ss.
RatioOfTheDecision	58 and 59 of the Indian Partnership Act together a firm c annot be said to be registered when the statement prescribed by s. 58 and the required fee are sent to the Registrar and that the registration of the firm is effected only when the 'entry of the statement is recorded in the registrar of firms and the statement is field by the Registrar as provided in s. 59 .
RatioOfTheDecision	In that case also an identically similar question arose in respect of registration of a firm under s. 26A of the Income-tax Act.
Precedent	<ORG> in the judgment under appeal referred to the statement extracted from the report of <ORG> which had been appointed by <ORG> to examine the provisions of the Bill before it came to be passed by <ORG> as the Partnership Act and reference was made in particular to the statement relating to clause 58 corresponding (1) AIRAl1.898.
Precedent	(2) I.L.R.
Precedent	58ALL.495.
Precedent	(3) 51 I.T.R.
Precedent	71 1.
Precedent	369  to S. 59 of the Partnership Act to the effect that the Registrar was a mere recording officer and that he had no discretion but to record the  entry in the registrar of firms.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to see how that statement, can be taken into consideration for the purpose of interpreting the relevant provisions of the Partnership Act .. We Also cannot concur with the other reasoning of <ORG> for coming to the conclusion that the partnership should be deemed to have been registered on the date when the application was, presented and that the requirement of rule 2(b) would be satisfied if it became registered under the Partnership Act even after the: application was filed.
RatioOfTheDecision	For the reasons given above the appeal is allowed and the judgment of <ORG> is set aside.
RatioOfTheDecision	The answer to the question referred must be given in the affirmative and against the, assessee.
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellant shall be entitled to costs in this Court.
Precedent	G.C.
Precedent	Appeal allowed'.
Precedent	10-L807Sup.
Precedent	CI/71
