Fact	<CITATION_29637506> )  1.
Fact	This is an appeal against the order of Collector of Central Excise (Appeals), Madras.
Fact	Brief facts of the case are that the appellants manufacture a product described as Halls Icemint Tablets and claim the assessment of the same under Tariff sub-heading 3003.30 as Ayurvedic medicine chargeable to nil rate of duty.
Fact	These tablets contain the following ingredients:  "1.
Fact	Sucrose I.P.
Fact	2.
Fact	Liquid Glucose  3.
Fact	Menthol I.P.
Fact	(mentioned on the label by the assessee as pudina)  4.
Fact	Euclyptus oil IP rectified (mentioned as Nilgirei Tailam on label)  5.
Fact	Glycerin  6.
Fact	Spearmint Oil  7.
Fact	<ORG>  8.
Fact	Brilliant Blue  9.
Fact	Water potable"  2.
Fact	Earlier, the appellants had also filed a classification list of another product described as Halls Mentholyptus Tablets claiming assessment of the same under Tariff sub-heading 3003.19 chargeable @ 15%.
Fact	The ingredients of the Halls Icemint Tablets and Mentholyptus Tablets appear to differ in respect of only colouring, material and flavouring, agents.
Fact	3.
Fact	The respo ndents, before the lower authorities, pleaded that they were manufacturing a product Halls Icemint Tablets under a licence issued to them by the Director, <ORG> and claimed that taking into account the nature of the ingredients used, the same was correctly assessable as Ayurvedic medicine at nil rate of duty.
Fact	4.
Fact	The Assistant Collector, however, held the goods to be assessable under 3003.19 chargeable @ 15%.
Fact	The Collector (Appeals), however, on appeal by the respondents, allowed their plea for assessment of the goods as Ayurvedic medicine under Tariff sub-heading 3003.30.
Fact	His findings in this regard are as under:  "The point for determination is whether "Halls ICE Mint" Tablets are Ayurvedic medicine or P.P.
Fact	Medicine.
Fact	In the order, the Assistant Collector has stated that Director Indian Medicine and Homeopathy has issued licence for manufacture of the "Halls Ice Mint Tablets" but there is no evidence that the same are being used or marketed .as Ayurvedic medicine.
Fact	The appellants pr oduced the packing for the said tablets, on which, it is clearly stated, that the contents of the tablet contains "Ayurvedic medicine".
Fact	Further, they also produced a certificate from Dr. <NAME>, Project Officer, <ORG> (Ayurveda), <ORG> and <ORG>), Hyderabad, that the tablets are Ayurvedic medicine.
Fact	Therefore, there is no doubt, that the Medicaments are used in Ayurvedic system, and accordingly, the clas-sification claimed under Tariff sub-heading 3003.30 in correct and approved.
Fact	The appeal is allowed for the above reason."
Argument	5.
Argument	The revenue has appeal against this order of the Collector and have claimed that the said goods were neither the P.P.
Argument	medicines nor Ayurvedic medicines falling under heading 17.04.
Fact	The grounds of appeal are set out as under:  "(1) The Collector of Central Excise (Appeals), Madras had erred in classifying HALLS ICE MINT TABLETS as an Ayurvedic Medicine falling under Chapter sub-heading 3003.30 of Central E xcise Tariff Act , 1985 whereas the CORRECT classification would be under Tariff heading 17.04.
Fact	(2) the composition of the product is furnished as : (1) Sucrose I.P.
Fact	(2) Liquid Glucose (3) Menthol I.P.
Fact	(mentioned on the label by the assessee as pudina) (4) Euclyptus Oil IP rectified (mentioned as Nilagiri Tailam on the label) (5) Glycerin (6) Suearmint Oil (7) Tartrazine ISI (8) Brilliant Blue (9) Water Potable.
Fact	The ingredients are of common usage with no specific medicinal properties or therapeutic value.
Fact	(3) The product does not possess any medicinal or curative properties and is commonly used as mouth fresher or of the throat.
Fact	(4) Although menthol and euclyptus are mentioned in the Ayurveda, the mere usage of these ingredients in a product does not render it as an Ayurvedic Medicine.
Fact	( <CITATION_1392437> , 1985 (22) ELT 175 (Tribunal).
Fact	(5) The licence issued by Director, <ORG> or the certificate issued by the Project Officer, <ORG> (<ORG> l for Research in Ayurveda and <ORG>: Hyderabad are not sufficient to establish that the product is an Ayurvedic medicine.
Fact	(6) The manufacture of the product under a licence issued under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 does not 'ipso facto' render the product classifiable as an Ayurvedic product under the Central Excise Tariff Act , 1985.
Argument	Even otherwise there indication to show that the product is being manufactured terms of the formulae described in the authoritative by Ayurvedic system of medicine specified in the 1st stage of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940.
Argument	Also this product mentioned as in any of the authoritative books or...."  (7) The product is freely sold by all general merchants without insistance on a physicians' prescription.
Argument	The label affixed on the product does not indicate any dosage/period of usage, toxicity, side effects, etc., which are essential for a drug.
Argument	The product is used as an item of confectionery.
Argument	(8) The respondent has not furnished any proof that the produ ct is a medicine.
Argument	Mere advertisement as an Ayurvedic Medicine could not make it as an Ayurvedic product.
Argument	(9) The produce is manufactured by <ORG>, which is a multi-national Company with its base in U.S.A. and it is inconceivable that an Ayurvedic Medicine would be manufactured by them as they are not established manufacturers of these medicines.
Argument	(10) The onus of establishing that the product is an Ayurvedic Medicine is on the respondent which has not been discharged by them properly."
Argument	6.
Argument	The learned <NAME>, for the department, pleaded that the issue before the lower authority was as to whether the goods were assessable to duty under Tariff subheading 3003.30 as Ayurvedic medicine exempt from payment of duty or under 3003.19 chargeable @ 15% and before the Collector (Appeals), the issue was decided in the context of these competing entries.
Argument	He pleaded that before the <ORG> the Collector has pleaded for the assessment of the goods under 17.04 at 12%.
Argument	These three Tariff headings, for c onvenience of reference, are reproduced below:  "3003 - MEDICAMENTS (INCLUDING VETERINARY MEDICAMENTS) Patent or proprietary medicaments; other than those medicaments which are exclusively Ayurvedic, Unani, Siddha, Homoeopathic or Biochemic x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 3003.19 -- Other 15% X X X X 3003.30 - Medicaments, including those used in Ayurvedic, Unani, Siddha, Homoeopathic or Biochemic systems Nil "17.04 - SUGAR CONFECTIONERY (INCLUDING WHITE CHOCOLATE) NOT CONTAINING COCOA X X X X X X X X 1704.90 - Other 12%  7.
Argument	He pleaded that so far as Halls Mentholyptus Tablets are concerned, they were assessed at 3003.19 and the classificstion of the same has not been disputed.
Argument	He pleaded that merely because the appellants have been issued a license for the manufacture of Ayurvedic medicine by the concerned authorities does not automatically make the product to be 'Ayurvedic' medicine.
Argument	He pleaded there is nothing on record to show that the produce has been manufactured exactly on Ayurvedic Siddha Unani system s of medicines.
Argument	He pleaded that the Collector (<ORG>) had merely gone by the certificate of Dr. <NAME>, Project Officer, <ORG>), <ORG> and <ORG>, <ORG> Hyderabad produced by the respondents and the fact that the products are described as Ayurvedic medicine.
Argument	He pleaded that he had not examined the issue in depth and the decision was not based on the analysis of any issue involved.
Argument	He pleaded that the menthol in the tablets which is being described as active ingredient as an Ayurvedic medicine was not made out according to the Ayurvedic principles and in fact this was of I.P.
Argument	grade.
Argument	He pleaded that the certificate of Dr. <NAME> states that the product was prepared as per Ayurvedic principles and nothing has been spelt out as to what he means by Ayurvedic principle and the certificate is in very general terms.
Argument	He pleaded that the certificate of Dr. <NAME>, produced before the Collector (<ORG>) gives the purposes for which <ORG> nt Throat Tablets were being used and sets out the various conditions it is said to treat without giving any basis.
Argument	8.
Argument	He pleaded that the goods were assessable under Tariff Item 704.90 and in this connection, he drew our attention to the Explanatory Note (Vol.
Argument	I) at p.133 Note (v) of the harmonized system of nomenclature on which the Central Excise Tariff is based and pleaded that throat pastilles or cough drops are covered under sub-heading 1704.90.
Argument	The said Note (v) is reproduced, for convenience of reference as under:  "17.04 - SUGAR CONFECTIONERY (INCLUDING WHITE CHOCO-LATE NOT CONTAINING COCOA * * * 1704.90 - Other (v) Preparations put up as throat pastilles or cough drops, consisting essentially of sugars (whether or not with other foodstuffs such as starch or flour) and flavouring agents (including such substances as benzy) alcohol, menthol, euclyptol and tolu balsam).
Argument	However, whenever a flavouring agent could also have medicinal properties and its proportion in each pastile or drop is such that the  preparation is thereby given therapeutic or prophylactic uses, the pastilles or drops fall in Chapter 30%.
Argument	9.
Argument	He also drew our attention to Explanatory Note under Chapter 30 of the said nomenclature at page 438 under which the pastilles of specific variety are excluded.
Argument	His plea is that the appellants' goods fall in the category set out under Note (v) of Chapter 17 under sub-heading 1704.90 as Were is nothing to show that these are of a variety which fall under Chapter 30.
Argument	10.
Argument	The learned Advocate for the respondents pleaded that the 'Ayurvedic' medicines are covered under a specific heading and that the decision of the <ORG> in the case of <CITATION_1392437> 1985 (22) ELT 844 covers the case in his favour and drew our attention to paras 105,110, 111, 116,117 and 119.
Argument	His plea is that in the trade parlence, the goods are understood as 'Ayurvedic' medicine and as held by the <ORG> in that case, the goods should be considered so for the purpose of assessment.
Argument	He pleaded that the certificate produced by  Dr. <NAME> clearly shows that the goods are Ayurvedic medicines and this certificate has not been challenged hi the grounds of appeal.
Argument	He pleaded that the goods have been manufactured under a licence issued under the Drugs Act and they have clearly stated before the lower authorities that the product had a curative effect.
Argument	On a query from the <ORG>, to show as to whether the ingredients in the tablets were such or in such quantity as would be required for the tablets to act as medicine, he pleaded that he does not have any information as to what is the quantum that would be required to treat the condition of the throat.
Argument	He was specifically asked as to what was the basis on which Dr. <NAME> had given the certificate and whether any clinical tests were done to establish the medicinal character of the tablets and also whether the appellants have claimed in their literature as to what conditions the tablets treat.
Argument	11.
Argument	The learned Advocate could not throw any light in this regard.
Fact	So far as the literature is concerned , he drew the attention of the <ORG> to the packing in which the tablets are sold.
Fact	The packing describes the goods as Halls Icemint throat tablets with the following wordings:  "Cools and Soothes the Throat - Refreshes the Mouth."
Fact	On the wrapper of the, tablet, the following additional information is furnished:  "Podina 33 mg., Nilgiri Tailam 2.45 mg. approved colours <ORG>."
Fact	On the carton in which tablets are sold, the following, further, endorsement is made:  "Halls Icemint combines time tested ingredients to provide cooling, soothing, refreshing feeling to the throat and mouth."
Argument	12.
Argument	He could not show from any one of their literatures or even from the claims made on the individual wrapper or the carton in which the Icemint Tablets are packed as to which condition of the throat the Icemint Tablets were intended to treat.
Argument	13.
Argument	He pleaded that they had evidence from the <ORG> and also certificates from the consumers and also from the retailers regarding the tablets being Ayurvedic and that  they had appended the same in the proceedings before the Collector (Appeals) but the same find no mention in the order.
Fact	On a query from the Bench, they stated that they have not filed the documents in the appeal before us nor did they make any plea for taking any additional evidence in this regard on record other than what has been filed in the paper book.
Fact	The only evidence, therefore, before us is the certificate from Dr. <NAME>.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	The learned <NAME> for the <ORG> referred to the <ORG>'s decision in the case of <NAME> 1985 (22) ELT 844 and drew our attention to Paras 86,116 and 117.
Argument	He pleaded that as there is no evidence on record to show that the goods manufactured by the appellants are Ayurvedic medicines.
Argument	Both the sides were given opportunity to file the, extracts from the authentic literature to show that the ingredients used were Ayurvedic in nature.
Argument	The learned <NAME> however, pleaded that even if the ingredients find mention in the Ayurvedic literature, it cannot be taken to mean that th e goods are Ayurvedic medicines as held by the <ORG> in the case of <NAME> referred to supra in Para 86.
Argument	15.
Argument	Both the sides filed the extracts from the literature on Ayurvedic and the case was again heard to enable both the sides to make any submissions based on the literature filed by both the sides.
Argument	The learned Advocate for the respondents pleaded that the Pudina is covered in the extracts produced by the <ORG> regarding the Ayurvedic ingredients.
Argument	The <ORG> pleaded that the relevant extracts from the book Indian Materia Medica by Dr. <NAME> describes Pudina under the heading as Mentha Arvensis Podina.
Fact	In this literature, different types of podina have been described.
Fact	The herbs of mint have been described as aromatic, carminative, stimulant, antispasmodic, stomachic and emmenagogue and are shown to be used in chutneys and also decoction or vapour of its tea is largely used with lemongrass as a febrifuge and it is also shown that the oil and menthol have the same properties.
Fact	The oil is show n as an anti-neuralgic.
Fact	16.
Fact	The respondents also have produced extracts from Krishna Gopal Gran-damal Ka Pratham Ratna showing the use of podina (menthol) (Peppen ient ke Phool) in various preparations for treating different conditions.
Fact	Podina with campher, cardamom, clove and Nutmag have been shown to be used in the preparation of <NAME> for disorder of the stomach and asthema.
Fact	For the preparation of Shoolan-tak Balm, the following ingredients have been found to be used:  WINTER GREEN OIL (Methyl Salicylate) 50 Parts Pudina (Menthol)(Pepperment Ke Phool) 10 Parts Euclyptus Oil (Nilgiri Tailam) 2-1/2 Parts Kajuputi Tel 2-112 Parts White Bees Wax (Saphed Mom) 20 Parts Lancline (Oon Ki Charbi) 25 Parts  17.
Argument	He referred to the judgment of <ORG> in the case of <ORG> 1988 (36) ELT 369.
Argument	He pointed out that ratio of this decision has a bearing on this case so far as the application of the common parlance criteria is concerned inasmuch as the issue has been decided in that case  in this context after taking note of the ingredients used.
Argument	18.
Argument	The points that fall for consideration in these proceedings are whether un-product manufactured by the appellants are a medicine and if so whether it is assessable as a patent and proprietary medicine chargeable to duty @ 15% or as an 'Ayurvedic' medicine chargeable to nil rate of duty.
Argument	In case the same is not a medicine whether the same can be considered as an item falling under Tariff heading 17.04.
Argument	19.
Argument	We observe the respondent's claim is that the respondent's goods are an 'Ayurvedic' medicine and their claim is primarily based on the fact that the same contains menthol which has been described by them in the sales packet as Pudina and also euclyptus oil as active ingredients.
Argument	There claim is that both these ingredients are 'Ayurvedic' medicinal ingredients and by virute of this, the tablets containing the same with other ingredients should be considered as 'Ayurvedic' medicine.
Fact	They have described the tablets as 'Ayurvedic' medicine on the wr apper of the individual tablet and the claim made on the same is that it cools and soothes the throat and refreshes the mouth.
Fact	The certificate of one Dr. <NAME> has been produced.
Fact	He is an ENT Surgeon and the Head of <ORG> in Hyderabad.
Argument	He is certifying the appellant's product as 'Ayurvedic' medicine taking into consideration that it has active ingredients mentioned in the authoritative 'Ayurvedic' books.
Argument	He has then gone into and described the medicinal properties of Pudina.
Argument	He has described that Pudina, Nilgiri Tailam and Pahari Pudina Tailam have powerful anti-septic and anti-....He has certified that the Halls Icemint Tablets help in treating throat, cough, cold and bad breath and that it is an 'Ayurvedic' medicine.
Argument	20.
Argument	It is seen from the last para of the certificate that his opinion is based on the information provided by one Dr. <NAME>.
Fact	It has not been clarified by the respondents nor in the certificate as to who Dr. <NAME> is and what was the information supplied  by him to Dr. <NAME> on which he has based his certificate.
Fact	Obviously, the Certificate of Dr. <NAME> is not based on his first hand information.
Fact	There is no mention in the certificate that the information is based on the analysis of the tablets done by Dr. <NAME> or any clinical trials that he may have carried out.
Fact	In fact during the hearing, a specific question was asked by the Bench as to whether Dr. <NAME> had carried out any clinical trials before he gave his information on the medicinal nature of the tablets.
Argument	21.
Argument	The respondents pleaded that they had no such information.
Argument	The hearing was held on more than one occasion and the appellants failed to come up with the information as to whether the claim for medicinal use as made was on the basis on any clinical trial done.
RatioOfTheDecision	This information, we may mention, is necessary as the appellants' product is not formulated according to the formulations set out in any 'Ayurvedic' Formulary or in any standard works recognised by <ORG> dha or the Drugs Control Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from the fact that the certificate given by Dr. <NAME> is not based on first hand informaton and that the appellants could not furnish any information as to the competence of Dr. <NAME> to give a certificate.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is seen that Dr. <NAME> is a Professor of Surgery of ENT and he cannot be considered as a specialist in the field of medicine.
RatioOfTheDecision	The certificate which could be taken note of is the one issued by the competent authority which in this case could be only <ORG> of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	22.
RatioOfTheDecision	We observe that for any formulation to be considered as medicine, the same should be either recognised so in a standard Ayurvedic work or should be so proved by clinical trials or should be recognised so by an authority like <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	We observe that both sides have produced literature showing that in the standard recognised books of <ORG> various formulations containing Pudina and Euclyptus oil for various purposes have been mentioned.
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellants' case for considering the goods as medici ne is only based on one fact that the active ingredients, namely, Pudina which in fact is menthol and Euclyptus oil, are 'Ayurvedic' in nature and these have medicinal properties.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question for consideration is can the mere presence of some quantity of medicinally active ingredients irrespective of the quantity make a particular formulation a medicine.
RatioOfTheDecision	23.
RatioOfTheDecision	We observe as it is pudina and euclyptus oil have some medicinal properties for certain purposes but the same have to be presented in such quantities as can produce a desired medicinal effect for treating specified coditions as seen from the formulations set out in the extracts of standard books produced before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	As it is, there is no claim made by the respondents that the (sic) tion of the throat or alleviating the suffering caused by certain infections of the throat or are prophylactic in nature.Their claim is only that the tablets are for creating cooling, soothing effect in the throat and it also refreshes the mouth.
RatioOfTheDecision	The medicines are not prescrib ed for these effects claimed to be produced by them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even water when taken produces cooling and soothing effect on the throat most of the time and even mere rinsing of the mouth creates the refreshing effect.
RatioOfTheDecision	The claim made by the respondents does not show that the tablets have been formulated as a medicine for treating any specified condition or alleviation of any suffering caused by some pathatogenic conditionof the throat.
Precedent	No evidence has been produced before us to show that the quantity hi which the ingredients are present is such that these have certain medicinal effects as shown in the Ayurveda literature regarding Pudina, etc.
Precedent	All that can be said is that the tablets produce an aromatic effect and cooling effect in the mouth and the throat.
Precedent	24.
Argument	The appellants have claimed on the wrapper that the tablets contain Pudina which itself is not a correct declaration.
Argument	What is used is menthol which can be an oil obtained from the Pudina leaves or of synthetic origin.
Argument	This oil used is of I.P.
Argument	grade.
Argument	No literatu re has been produced before us regarding the euclyptus oil which has been described as Nilgiri Tailam.
Precedent	In any case no claim has been made before us nor any evidence produced that the euclyptus oil by itself or in combination with menthol in the quantities used in the tablets for is treating any condition of the throat.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	We may observe that in case any product is marketed as medicine and is accepted as such then apart from the medicinal effect, it is supposed to have its dosage also prescribed.
Precedent	We find that no dosage has been prescribed for the medicine on the packings of the tablets nor any product literature has been produced before us in this regard./The appellants were specifically asked in case they were selling the product as medicine, whether they had any product literature in this regard.
Precedent	They could not produce any such literature.
Precedent	The appellants have not produced any evidence from any practising physician as to whether they have recommended Icemint Tablets as a medicine for any condition of the th roat.
Precedent	They have not produced any evidence from the trade to show that these tablets have been marketed and accepted as medicine.
Precedent	26.
Precedent	Both the sides cited the decision of this <ORG> in the case of <CITATION_919114> .
Precedent	1985 (22) E.L.T.
Precedent	844.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	The learned JDR pointed that the <ORG> took note of the fact that merely because some ingredients, which may have medicinal properties are there in a formulation, this does not, by itself, make the product a medicine unless it is so understood in the trade or unless the same finds a mention in the authoritative Ayurvedic books.
Argument	He pointed out that the appellants' product does not figure in any one of the authoritative books.
Argument	He referred to Paras 72-104 and 116 of the said judgment.
Argument	He pointed out that the definition of the product given in the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 was held to be not applicable for the purpose of classifying a product under Central Excise Tariff.
Argument	28.
Argument	The learned Advocate referred to Paras 105-110, 111, 116,117 and 119 of the said judgmen t and pointed out that even if some allopathic ingredients were used in a product so long as in the trade the same is known as Ayurvedic medicine, it would qualify to be considered as Ayurvedic medicine.
Argument	He pleaded that the certificate of Dr. <NAME>, referred to supra, goes to show that the product is understood as an Ayurvedic medicine in the trade.
Precedent	29.
RatioOfTheDecision	We observe that we have held in the earlier paragraphs that the evidence of Dr. <NAME> is not acceptable and the product does not pass the muster of Ayurvedic medicine.
RatioOfTheDecision	The facts of the present case are, therefore, distinguishable from the facts cited in <ORG> case so far as pleas made by the respondents are concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	30.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the foregoing, we hold that the appellants' claim that Icemint (sic) by them are a medicine is not established before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	31.
RatioOfTheDecision	We observe that in the proceedings before the original authority and the appellate authority, the issue was considered in the context of only two competing items 3003.19 and 3003.3 0 i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	whether the goods were patent and proprietary medicines or 'Ayurvedic' medicines.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the view, we have held above, inasmuch as, the tablets cannot be considered as medicine, the question of assessment of goods under anyone of the two headings, therefore, does not arise.
RatioOfTheDecision	The next point for consideration is, therefore, which will be appropriate heading for the purpose of levy of <ORG> duty.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	We observe that the <ORG> have claimed that the goods are assessable under Tariff Heading 17.04.
Precedent	The plea that even if these are throat lozenges these stand covered by this entry and excluded from ambit of Tariff sub-heading 3003.
Precedent	33.
Precedent	The <ORG> have pressed the Chapter Notes under Harmonised System of Nomenclature in support of this plea.
Precedent	34.
Precedent	We observe that the <ORG> Tariff of 1986-87 is not based on the Harmonised System as cited by the <ORG> and the goods will have to be assessed with reference to the provisions of the law as contained under the relevant <ORG> Tariff.
Precedent	35.
RatioOfTheDecision	We  observe that Chapter 17, specifically, excludes from its purview the products of Chapter 30.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already held above that the appellants' product is not a medicine falling under Chapter 30.
RatioOfTheDecision	Tariff Entry 17.04 covers sugar confectionary.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question is whether the product can be considered as confectionary as such.
RatioOfTheDecision	We observe that Icemint Tablets are claimed to be for refreshing the mouth and also for cooling and soothing the throat.
RatioOfTheDecision	These have aromatic or property of flavour imparted to these by menthol and euclyptus oil and the major content of the same is sugar apart from the colouring matter and other items as preservative.
RatioOfTheDecision	Like pepperment tablets which are sold as confectionery item, these tablets can be, therefore, considered to have the attributes of confectionary.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, even if the items are not strictly considered as confectionary for any reason, the matter will have to be re-examined with reference to interpretative rules as applicable to the Central Excise Tariff.
RatioOfTheDecision	36.
RatioOfTheDecision	We observe that both s ides have not adduced any detailed arguments as to why these tablets can be considered as confectionary item or otherwise although a plea is there from the Collector in the grounds of appeal that the goods are assessable under Tariff 1704.
RatioOfTheDecision	37.
RatioOfTheDecision	We observe that once the tablets are held to be not a medicament falling under Chapter 30, the next item which falls for consideration is 1704.90.
RatioOfTheDecision	We observe from the interpretative rules for interpretation of the Central Excise Schedule, which are statutory in nature that under the interpretative Rule 4, the tablets will fall within the ambit of interpretative Rule 4.
RatioOfTheDecision	The said rule, for convenience of reference is reproduced below:  "Goods which cannot be classified in accordance with the above rules shall be classified under the heading appropriate to the goods to which they are most akin."
RatioOfTheDecision	38.
RulingByPresentCourt	In view of the above, we allow the appeal of the <ORG> in the above terms.
RulingByPresentCourt	Any recovery to be made will have to be in terms of the assessment of the goods in terms Tariff h eading 1704.90 subject to the other provisions of the law.
