Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: STATE OF MAHARASHTRA DATE OF JUDGMENT17/07/1984 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> VARADARAJAN, A.
Fact	(J) MUKHARJI, <NAME> (J) CITATION: 1984 AIR 1622 1985 SCR (1) 88 1984 SCC (4) 116 1984 SCALE (2)445 CITATOR INFO : D 1988 SC1101 (22) F 1990 SC 79 (21) R 1991 SC 917 (37,42,50) R 1991 SC1842 (6) ACT: Constitution of India, 1950, Article 136- Interference by <ORG> with the concurrent findings of fact of the courts below, normally not permissible-Special circumstance like errors of law, violation of well established principles of criminal jurisprudence etc.
Fact	would be necessary for interference.
Fact	Evidence-Circumstantial evidence, nature and proof of- Conditions precedent for conviction- Evidence Act  Section 3 (Act 1 of 1972).
Fact	Evidence-Circumstantial evidence-Onus of proof- Prosecution must prove every link of the chain and complete chain-Infirmity or lacuna in the prosecution cannot be cured by false defence or plea-A pers on cannot be convicted on pure moral conviction-False explanation can be used as additional link to fortify the prosecution case, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions.
Fact	Doctrine of Proximity, concept of, nature and limits explained-Admissibility of statements and dying declarations under sections 8 , 32 of the Evidence Act.
Fact	Murder by administration of poison-Circumstances that should be looked into before a conviction-Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860) Section 300 .
Fact	Evidence, appreciation of-Evidence of interested witnesses, especially that of close relatives of the deceased-Duty of the Court-Evidence Act (Act I of 1872) Section 3 .
Fact	Benefit of doubt-When two views are possible, one leading to the guilt of the accused and the other leading to his innocence, the benefit of doubt should go to the accused entitling his acquittal- Evidence Act (Act I of 1872) Sections 101-104 .
Fact	Examination of the accused under Section 313 of Crl.
Fact	P.C.-Circumstances not put to the accused to explain, cannot be considered for conv iction-Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Act II of 1974) Section 313 .
Fact	HEADNOTE: The appellant, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, were accused 1, 2 and 3 respectively in Sessions Case No.
Fact	203 of 1982 on the file of the Additional Sessions Judge, Pune.
Fact	The appellant and the second accused are the sons of one <NAME> of Pune whose family has a cloth business.
Fact	In addition, the appellant, a graduate in <ORG> had 89 started a chemical factory at Bhosari, a suburb of Pune.
Fact	The third accused is uncle of the appellant and the second accused.
Fact	The appellant is the <NAME> of <NAME> alias <NAME> while the second accused is the <NAME> of <NAME> (P.W.
Fact	35).
Fact	<NAME>'s family has its residential house at Ravivar Peth in Pune and owns a flat in a building known as Takshasheela Apartments in Mukund Nagar area of Pune.
Fact	All the three accused were charged for the alleged offence of murder by poisoning on the night of 11/12.6.1982 of <NAME> the newly married wife of the first accuse d and the appellant herein under section 302 I.P.C.
Fact	read with section 120B .
Fact	Accused No, 3 was also charged under section 201 read with Section 120B I.P.C.
Fact	The whole case vested on the circumstantial evidence based on certain letters alleged to have been written by the deceased to some of the witnesses and other statements of the deceased to them and the medical report.
Fact	On an appreciation of the evidence the trial court found all the three accused guilty as charged, convicted them accordingly and sentenced the appellant to death under s.302 I.P.C .
Fact	and all the three accused to rigorous imprisonment for two years and a fine of Rs.
Fact	2,000 each under s.120B I.P.C .
Fact	but did not award any sentence under s.201 read with s.120B.
Fact	The appellant and the other two accused file Criminal Appeal No.
Fact	265/83 against their conviction and the sentences awarded to them.
Fact	The <ORG> filed a Criminal Revision application for enhancement of the sentence awarded to accused 2 and 3.
RulingByLowerCourt	The appeal as well as Criminal Revision application w as heard along with confirmation case No.
RulingByLowerCourt	3 of 1983 together by <ORG> of <ORG> which allowed the appellants appeal in part regarding his conviction and sentence under s.120B I.P.C .
RulingByLowerCourt	but confirmed his conviction and sentence of death awarded under section 302 I.P.C., allowed the appeal of accused 2 and 3 in full and acquitted them and dismissed the Criminal Revision Application.
Fact	Hence the appellant alone has come up before <ORG> after obtaining Special Leave.
Fact	Allowing the appeal, the <ORG> ^ HELD: (Per <NAME>, J.).
Fact	1:1.
RatioOfTheDecision	Normally, <ORG> does not interfere with the concurrent findings of the fact of the courts below in the absence of very special circumstances or gross errors of law committed by the High <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, where the High <ORG> ignores or overlooks the crying circumstance and proved facts, or violates and misapplies the well established principles of criminal jurisprudence or decision rendered by this <ORG> on appreciation of circumstantial evidenc e and refuses to give benefit of doubt to the accused despite facts apparent on the face of the record or on its own finding or tries to gloss over them without giving any reasonable explanation or commits errors of law apparent on the face of the record which results in serious and substantial miscarriage of justice to the accused, it is the duty of this <ORG> to step in and correct the legally erroneous decision of the High <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	[174E-G] 1:2.
RatioOfTheDecision	Suspicion, however, great it may be, cannot take the place of legal proof.
RatioOfTheDecision	A moral conviction however, strong or genuine cannot amount to a legal conviction supportable in law.
Precedent	[174H] 1:3.
Precedent	The well established rule of criminal justice is 'fouler the crime higher the proof'.
Precedent	In the instant case, the life and liberty of a subject was at 90 stake.
Precedent	As the accused was given a capital sentence a very careful cautious and meticulous approach necessarily had to be made by the <ORG>.
Precedent	[175A] 2:1.
Precedent	The Indian law on the question of the nature and scope of dying declaration has m ade a distinct departure from the English law where only the statement which directly relate to the cause of death are admissible.
Precedent	The second part of cl.
Precedent	(1) of s.32, viz, "the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that person's death comes into question" is not to be found in the English Law.
Precedent	[107F-G] 2:2.
Precedent	From a review of the various authorities of the <ORG> and the clear language of s.32(1) of Evidence Act , the following propositions emerge: [108F] (1) Section 32 is an exception to the rule of hearsay and makes admissible the statement of a person who dies.
Precedent	whether the death is a homicide or a suicide, provided the statement relates to the cause of death, or relates to circumstances leading to the death.
Precedent	In this respect, Indian Evidence Act , in view of the peculiar conditions of our society and the diverse nature and character of our people, has thought it necessary to widen the sphere of s.32 to avoid injustice.
Precedent	[108G-H] (2) The test of proximity ca nnot be too literally construed and practically reduced to a cut-and-dried formula of universal application so as to be confined in a straitjacket.
Precedent	Distance of time would depend or very with the circumstances of each case.
Precedent	For instance, where death is a logical clumination of a continuous drama long in process and is, as it were, a finale of the story, the statement regarding each step directly connected with the end of the drama would be admissible because the entire statement would have to be read as on organic whole and not torn from the context.
Precedent	Sometimes statements relevant to or furnishing an immediate motive may also be admissible as being a part of the transaction of death.
Precedent	It is manifest that all these statements come to light only after the death of the deceased who speaks from death.
Precedent	For instance, where the death takes place within a very short time of the marriage or the distance of time is not spread over more than 3-4 months the statements may be admissible under s.32.
Precedent	[109B-D] (3) The second pa rt of cl.1 of s.32 is yet another exception to the rule that in criminal law the evidence of a person who was not being subjected to or given an opportunity of being cross-examined by the accused, would be valueless because the place of cross-examination is taken by the solemnity and sanctity of oath for the simple reason that a person on the verge of death is not likely to make a false statement unless there is strong evidence to show that the statement was secured either by prompting or tutoring.
Precedent	[109E-F] (4) Section 32 does not speak of homicide alone but includes suicide also, hence all the circumstance which may be relevant to prove a case of homicide would be equally relevant to prove a case of suicide.
Precedent	[109-G] (5) Where the main evidence consists of statements and letters written by the deceased which are directly connected with or related to her death and 91 which reveal a tell-tale story, the said statement would clearly fell within the four corners of s.32 and, therefore, admissible.
Precedent	The distance of  time alone in such cases would not make the statement irrelevant.
Precedent	[109H] <CITATION_882637>  S.C.R.
Precedent	1091; <NAME> v. <ORG> of Punjab Criminal Appeal No.
Precedent	98 of 1958 decided on 4.11.58 =AIR 1958 SC 152; <CITATION_1848868>  SCR 1336; <CITATION_516808> AIR 1939 PC 47; <NAME> & Ors v. The <ORG> of Uttar Pradesh Crl.
Precedent	Appeal No.
Precedent	55 of 1966 decided on 29.7.66 =(1966) Crl.
Precedent	Appeal SC 281; and Protima Dutta & Anr.
Precedent	v. The <ORG>, C.W.N.
Precedent	713 referred to.
Precedent	<CITATION_165408>  Cr.L.J, 1373; <CITATION_1029775>  Crl.
Precedent	L.J.
Precedent	1200; <CITATION_1866831> AIR 1960 Bom.
Precedent	290; <NAME> v. <ORG> of Madras  M.L.J.
Precedent	246; <NAME> v. The <ORG> AIR 1960 Punjab 310; and <CITATION_487225> .
Precedent	AIR 1954 All.
Precedent	153. approved.
Precedent	<CITATION_1815271> , AIR 1950 Cal.
Precedent	306, overruled.
Precedent	3:1.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is well settled that the prosecution must stand or fall on its own legs and it cannot derive any strength from the weakness of the defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is trite law.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, where various links in a chain are in themselves complete, then a false plea or a fa lse defence may be called into aid only to lend assurance to the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words before using the additional link it must be proved that all the links in the chain are complete and do not suffer from any infirmity.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not the law that where there is any infirmity or lacuna in the prosecution case the same could be cured or supplied by a false defence or a plea which is not accepted by a <ORG>.
Precedent	[162C-E] 3:2.
Precedent	Before a false explanation can be used as additional link, the following essential conditions must be satisfied: [165E] 1.
Precedent	Various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved; [165E] 2.
Precedent	The said circumstance point to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness and; [165G] 3.
Precedent	The circumstances is in proximity to the time and situation.
Precedent	[165H] If these conditions are fulfilled only then a <ORG> can use a false explanation or a false defence as an additional link to lend as assurance to the <ORG> and not otherwise.
Precedent	On the facts and circumstances of t he present case this does not appear to be such a case.
Precedent	There is a vital difference between an incomplete chain of circumstances and a circumstance, which, after the chain is complete, is added to it merely to reinforce the conclusion of the court.
Precedent	Where the prosecution is enable to prove any of the essential principles laid down in <NAME>'s case <ORG> cannot supply the weakness or the lacuna by taking aid of or recourse to a false defence or a false plea.
Precedent	[166A; 166D-E] 92 3:3.
Precedent	Before a case against an accused vesting on circumstantial evidence can be said to be fully established the following conditions must be fulfilled as laid down in <NAME>'s v. State of M.P.
Precedent	SCR 1091.
Precedent	[163C] 1.
Precedent	The circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established; [163D] 2.
Precedent	The facts so established should be consistent with the hypothesis of guilt and the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty; [163G] 3.
Precedent	The  circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency;[163G] 4.
Precedent	They should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved; and [163H] 5.
Precedent	There must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
Precedent	[164B] These five golden principles constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence and in the absence of a corpus deliciti.
Precedent	[164B] <CITATION_204632>  SCR 1091; <NAME> v. State of Uttar Pradesh  3 SCC 198; <NAME> v. State of Maharashtra AIR 1972 SC 656; and <CITATION_1035123>  2 SCC 793 referred to.
Precedent	3:4.
Precedent	The cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence is that a case can be said to be proved only when there is certain and explicit evidence and no pure moral conviction.
Precedent	[164F] The King v. Horry  N.Z.L.R.
Precedent	III quoted with approval.
Precedent	<CITATION_882637> .
Precedent	S.C.R.
Precedent	1091; Dharambir  <NAME> v. The State of Punjab (Criminal Appeal No.
Precedent	98 of 1958 decided on 4.11.58); <NAME> v. The State of Bombay (Criminal Appeal No.
Fact	120 of 1957 decided on 19.2.58) <NAME> (alias) <NAME> v. State of U.P.
Fact	3 S.C.C.
Fact	198; <NAME> v. State of Maharashtra AIR 1972 SC 656; <CITATION_362252>  2 SCR 694/ <CITATION_110161> .
Fact	A.I.R.
Fact	1974 SC 1144/46; <NAME> v State of Maharashtra  2 SCR 384/390; and <CITATION_694079>  2 SCR 405/419 referred to.
Fact	<NAME> v The State of Bihar  2 SCR 570/582 distinguished.
Fact	Some of the statements which have a causal connection with the death of <NAME> or the circumstances leading to her death are undoubtedly admissible 93 under section 32 of the Evidence Act but other statements which do not bear any proximity with the death or if at all very remotely and indirectly connected with the death would not be admissible.
Fact	[121H] 3.5.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the close relationship and affection any person in the position of the witness would naturally have a ten dency to exaggerate or add facts which may not have been stated to them at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is human phychology and no one can help it.
RatioOfTheDecision	Not that this is done consciously but even unconsciously the love and affection for the deceased would create a phychological hatred against the supposed murderer, the court has to examine the evidence of interested witnesses with very great care and caution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if the witnesses were speaking a part of the truth or perhaps the whole of it they would be guided by a spirit of revenge or nemesis against the accused person and in this process certain facts which may not or could not have been stated may be imagined to have been stated unconsciously by the witnesses in order to see that the offender is punished.
RatioOfTheDecision	[122C-D] 3.6.
RatioOfTheDecision	A close and careful scrutiny of the evidence of the witness (PWs 2, 3, 4 and 5) who are close relatives or deceased and conspicuously reveals a story which is quite different from the one spelt out from the letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and 33).
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, the letters have  a different tale to tell particularly in respect of certain matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are: [138D] (i) There is absolutely no reference to suicidal pact or the circumstances leading to the same; (ii) There is no reference even to <NAME> and her illcit relations with the appellant; (iii) There is no mention of the fact that the deceased was not at all willing to go to Pune and that she was sent by force; (iv) The complaints made in the letters are confined to ill-treatment, loneliness, neglect and anger of the <NAME> but no apprehension has been expressed in any of the letters that the deceased expected imminent danger to her life from her <NAME>; (v) In fact, in the letters she had asked her sister and friend not to disclose her and plight to her parents but while narrating the facts to her parents, she herself violated the said emotional promise which appears to be too good to be true and an after thought added to strengthen the prosecution case; and (vi) If there is anything inherent in the letters it is that because  of her miserable existence and gross ill-treatment by her <NAME>, <NAME> might have herself decided to end her life, rather than bother her parents.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, these witnesses are not totally dependable so as to exclude the possibility of suicide and to come to an irresistible inference, that it was the appellant who had murdered the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	Though a good part of the evidence is undoubtedly admissible, its probative value is precious little in view of the several improbabilities, [138E-H; 139A-B] 4.1.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is well-settled that where on the evidence two possibilities are available or open one which goes in favour of the prosecution and the other which benefits an accused, the accused is undoubtedly entitled to the benefit of doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	[166H] 94 In the instant case, the evidence clearly shows that two views are possible-one pointing to the guilt of the accused and the other leading to his innocence.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be very likely that the appellant may have administered the poison (potassium cyanide) to <NAME> but at the sa me time a fair possibility that she herself committed suicide cannot be safely excluded or eliminated.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence, on this ground alone the appellant is entitled to the benefit of doubt resulting in his acquittal.
Precedent	[168B] 4.2.
Precedent	In the cases of murder by administering poison, the Court must carefully scan the evidence and determine the four important circumstances which alone can justify the conviction: (1) There is a clear motive for an accused to administer poison to the deceased; (ii) that the deceased died of poison said to have been administered; (iii) that the accused had the poison in his possession; and (iv) that he had an opportunity to administer the poison to the accused.
Precedent	[167F-H] 4.3.
Precedent	In the instant case, taking an over all picture on this part of the prosecution case the position seems to be as follows: [150D] 1.
Precedent	If the accused wanted to give poison while <NAME> was wide awake, she would have put up stiffest possible resistance as any other person in her position would have done.
Precedent	Dr. <NAME> in his postm ortem report has not found any mark of violence or resistance even if she was overpowered by the appellant she would have shouted and cried and attracted persons from the neighbouring flats which would have been a great risk having regard to the fact that some of the inmates of the house had come only a short- while before the appellant.
Precedent	[150E-F] 2.
Precedent	Another possibility which cannot be ruled out is that potassium cyanide may have been given to <NAME> in a glass of water if she happened to ask for it.
Precedent	But if this was so, she being a chemist herself would have at once suspected some foul play and once her suspicion would have arisen it would be very difficult for the appellant to murder her.
Precedent	[150G] 3.
Precedent	The third possibility is that as <NAME> had returned pretty late to the flat and she went to sleep even before the arrival of the appellant and then he must have tried forcibly to administer the poison by the process of mechanical suffociation, in which case alone the deceased could not have been in a position to off er any resistance but this opinion of doctor, has not been accepted by <ORG>, after a very elaborate consideration and discussion of the evidence, the circumstances and the medical authorities, found that the opinion of the doctor that <NAME> died by mechanical suffocation had not been proved or at any rate it is not safe to rely on such evidence.
Precedent	[150H; 151A-C] 4.
Precedent	The other possibility that may be thought of is that <NAME> died a natural death.
Precedent	This also is eliminated in view of the report of the Chemical Examiner as confirmed by the postmortem that the deceased died as a result of administration of potassium cyanide.
Precedent	[152B] 95 5.
Precedent	The only other reasonable possibility that remains is that as the deceased was fed up with the maltreatment by her <NAME>, in a combined spirit of revenge and hostility after entering the flat she herself took potassium cyanide and lay limp and lifeless.
Precedent	When the appellant entered the room he must have thought that as she was sleeping she need not be disturbed but when he f ound that there was no movement in the body after an hour his suspicion was roused and therefore he called his brother from the adjacent flat to send for Dr. <NAME>.
Precedent	[152C-D] In these circumstances, it cannot be said that a reasonable possibility of the deceased having committed suicide as alleged by the defence cannot be safely ruled out or eliminated.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is clear that the circumstances of the appellant having been last seen with the deceased and has administered the opinion has not been proved conclusively so as to raise an irresistible inference that <NAME>'s death was a case of blatant homicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	[152E-F] Further, in a matter of this magnitude it would be quite natural for the members of the appellants family to send for their own family doctor who was fully conversant with the ailment of every member of the family.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances there was nothing wrong if the appellant and his brother went to a distance of one and a half kilometer to get.
RatioOfTheDecision	Dr. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly, Dr. <NAME> was a skin speciali st whereas Dr. (Mrs,) <NAME> was a Paediatrician and the appellant may have genuinely believed that as they belonged to different branches, they were not at all suitable to deal with such a serious case.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> was, therefore, wrong in treating this circumstance namely not calling the two Doctors in the flat, as an incriminating conduct of the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	[157B-D] The circumstances which were not put to the appellant in his examination under S. 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code must be completely excluded from considerating because the appellant did not have any chance to explain them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from the aforesaid comments there is one vital defect in some of the circumstances relied upon by <ORG> namely circumstances Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12,13, 16 and 17.
RatioOfTheDecision	[160B; 159B-C] <NAME> v. State of Madhaya Pradesh AIR 1953 SCR 468 ; <CITATION_491665> 1976 1 SCC 438 and; <CITATION_520478> AIR 1979 SC 1566 referred to.
RatioOfTheDecision	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	Viewing the entire evidence, the circumstance of the case  and the interpretation of the decisions of <ORG> the legal and factual position are (i) that the five golden principles enunciated by <ORG> in <CITATION_204632> .
RatioOfTheDecision	SCR 1091 have not been satisfied in the instant case.
RatioOfTheDecision	As a logical corollary, it follows that cannot be held that the act of the accused cannot be explained on any other hypothesis except the guilt of the appellant nor can it be said that in all human probability, the accused had committed the murder of <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the prosecution has not fulfilled the essential requirements of a criminal case which rests purely on circumstantial evidence; (ii) From the recital in the letters Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	P30, Ex-P32 and Ex-P33 it can be safely held 96 that there was a clear possibility and a tendency on the part of the deceased <NAME> to commit suicide due to desperation and frustration.
RatioOfTheDecision	She seems to be tried of her married life, but she still hoped against hope that things might improve.
RatioOfTheDecision	She solemnly believed that her holy union with her  <NAME> bring health and happiness to her but unfortunately it seems to have ended in a melancholy marriage which left her so lonely and frustrated so much of emotional disorder resulting from frustration and pessimism that she was forced to end her life.
RatioOfTheDecision	There can be no doubt that <NAME> was not only a sensitive and sentimental women was extremely impressionate and the letters show that a constant conflict between her mind and body was going on and unfortunately the circumstances which came into existence hastened her end.
RatioOfTheDecision	People with such a psychotic philosophy or bent of mind always dream of an ideal and if the said ideals fails, the failure drives them to end their life, for they feel that no charm is left in their life; (iii) The prosecution has miserably failed to prove one of the most essential ingredients of a case of death caused by administration of poison i.e.. possession with the accused (either by direct or circumstantial evidence) and on this ground alone the prosecution must fails.
RatioOfTheDecision	(iv) That is  appreciating the evidence, <ORG> has clearly misdirected itself on many points, and has thus committed a gross error of law; (iv) That <ORG> has relied upon decisions of this <ORG> which are either in applicable or which, on closer examination, do not support the view of <ORG> being clearly distinguishable; (vi) That <ORG> has taken a completely wrong view of law in holding that even though the prosecution may suffer from serious infirmities it could be reinforced by additional link in the nature of false defence in order to supply the lacuna and has thus committed a fundamental error or law; (vii) That <ORG> has not only misappreciated the evidence but has completely overlooked the well established principles of law and has merely tried to accept the prosecution case based on tenterhooks and slender tits and bits; (viii) It is wholly unsafe to rely on that part of the evidence of Dr. <NAME> (PW 33) which shows that poison was forcibly administered by the process  of mechanical suffociation; (ix) There is no manifest defect in the investigation made by the police which appears to be honest and careful.
RatioOfTheDecision	A proof positive of this fact is that even though <NAME> and other members of his family who had practically no role to play had been arraigned as accused but they had to be acquitted by <ORG> for lack of legal evidence; (x) That in view of the findings two views are clearly possible in the present case, the question of defence being false does not arise.
Precedent	[172E-H; 173A-H; 174A-D] Per <NAME>, J.
Precedent	(Per contra on facts.)
Precedent	1:1.
Precedent	The three letters Exh.
Precedent	P 30, Exh.
Precedent	P 32 and Exh.
Precedent	P 33 and the oral evidence of PWs.
Precedent	2, 3, 5, 6, and 20 are inadmissible in evidence under section 32(1) of the Evidence Act.
Precedent	There is no acceptable evidence on record to show that either the appellant or his parents ill-treated the desceased <NAME> and that the appellant had any illicit intimacy with PW 37 <NAME>.
Precedent	The alleged oral statement of <NAME> and what she has stated in her  letters Exh.
Precedent	30, 32 and 33 may relate to matters perhaps having a very remote bearing on the cause or the circumstances of her death.
Precedent	Those circumstances do not have any proximate 97 relation to the actual occurrence resulting in her death due to potassium cyanide poison though for instance in the case of prolonged poisoning they may relates to dates considerably distant from the date of the actual fatal dose.
Precedent	They are general impressions of Manju indicating fear or suspicion, whether of a particular individual or otherwise and not directly related to the occasion or her death.
Precedent	It is not the case of the prosecution either that the present case is one of porlonged poisoning.
Precedent	[187B; 190D-F] 1: 2.
Precedent	The fact that the High court has rejected the case of the prosecution based on Dr. <NAME>'s report and evidence that it was also a case of mechanical suffocation is not one that could be taken into consideration as a mitigating circumstance in judging the conduct of the doctor who had conducted the autopsy in a case  of suspicious death.
Precedent	The conduct of the doctor in making certain later interpolations in the case of suspicious death in which the appellant has been sentenced to death by the two courts below deserves serious condemnations.
Precedent	The doctor has tempered with material evidence in the case of alleged murder may be at the instance of somebody else, ignoring the probable consequences of his act.
Precedent	In these circumstances Dr. <NAME> PW 33 is person who should not be entrusted with any serious and responsible work such as conducting autopsy in public interest.
Precedent	In this case the appellant would have gone to gallows on the basis of the evidence of PW 33 as he would have the Court to believe it, and the other evidence, if they had been accepted.
RatioOfTheDecision	[193D-H] 1: 3.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 313 Criminal Procedure Code lays down that in every inquiry or trial for the purpose of enabling the accused personally to explain any circumstance appearing in the evidence against him, the court may at any stage without previously warning the accused, put su ch questions to him as the court considers necessary and shall, after the witnesses for the prosecution have been examined and before he is called for his defence, question him generally on the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence the evidence on the basis on which question Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	25, 30, 32, and 115 have been put to the appellant are wholly irrelevant as these questions do not relate to any circumstance appearing in the against the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Additional Sessions Judge was bound to exercise control over the evidence being tendered in his court and to know the scope of the examination of the accused under Section 313 Criminal Procedure Code [195A-C] Per <NAME>, J.
RatioOfTheDecision	(Concurring) Though the test of proximity cannot and should not be two literally construed and be reduced practically to a cut- and-dried formula of universal application, it must be emphasised that wherever it is extended beyond the immediate, it should be explained and must be done with very great caution and care.
RatioOfTheDecision	As a general proposition it cannot  be laid down for all purposes that for instance where the death takes place within a short time of marriage and the distance of time is not spread over three or four months, the statement would be admissible under Section 32 of the evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is always not so and cannot be so.
Fact	In very exceptional circumstances such statements may be admissible and that too not for proving the positive fact, namely raising some doubt about the guilt of the accused [197D-F] 98 JUDGMENT:  CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.
Fact	745 of 1983 From the Judgment and Order dated the 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd September 1983 of <ORG> in Criminal Appeal No.
Fact	265 of 1983 with confirmation case No.
RatioOfTheDecision	3/83.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and Ms. <NAME> for the Appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> for the Respondent.
Precedent	The following Judgments were delivered <NAME>, J.
Precedent	This is rather an unfortunate case where a marriage arranged and brought about  through the intervention of common friends of the families of the bride and bridegroom though made a good start but ran into rough weather soon thereafter.
Precedent	The bride, <NAME>, entertained high hopes and aspirations and was not only hoping but was anxiously looking forward to a life full of mirth and merriment, mutual love and devotion between the two spouses.
Precedent	She appears to be an extremely emotional and sensitive girl at the very behest cherished ideal dreams to be achieved after her marriage, which was solemnised on February 11, 1982 between her and the appellant, <NAME>.
Precedent	Soon after the marriage, <NAME> left for her new marital home and started residing with the appellant in Takshila apartments at Pune.
Precedent	Unfortunately, however, to her utter dismay and disappointment she found that the treatment of her <NAME> and his parents towards her was cruel and harsh and her cherished dreams seem to have been shattered to pieces.
Precedent	Despite this shocking state of affairs she did not give in and kept hoping a gainst hope and being of a very noble and magnanimous nature she was always willing to forgive and forget.
Precedent	As days passed by, despite her most laudable attitude she found that "things were not what they seem" and to quote her own words "she was treated in her husbands house as a labourer or as an unpaid maid-servant".
Precedent	She was made to do all sorts of odd jobs and despite her protests to her <NAME> nothing seems to have happened.
Precedent	Even so, <NAME> had such a soft and gentle frame of mind as never to complain to her parents-in-law, not even to her <NAME> except sometimes.
Precedent	On finding things unbearable, she did protest, and ex pressed her feelings in clearest possible terms, in a fit of utter desperation and frustration, that he hated her.
Precedent	Not only this, when she narrated her woeful tale to her sister <NAME> in the letters written to her (which would be dealt with in a later part of the judgment), she took the abundant care and caution of requesting <NAME> not to reveal her sad plight to her parents lest they may get e xtremely upset, worried and distressed.
Precedent	Ultimately, things came to such a pass that <NAME> was utterly disgusted and disheartened and she thought that a point of no-return had reached.
Precedent	At last, on the fateful morning of June 12,1982, i.e., nearly four months after her marriage, she was found dead in her bed.
Precedent	As to the cause of death, there appears to be a very serious divergence between the prosecution version and the defence case.
Precedent	The positive case of the prosecution was that as the appellant was not at all interested in her and had illicit intimacy with another girl, <NAME>, he practically discarded his wife and when he found things to be unbearable he murdered her between the night of June 11 and 12, 1982, and made a futile attempt to cremate the dead body.
Precedent	Ultimately, the matter was reported to the police.
Precedent	On the other hand, the plea of the defence was that while there was a strong possibility of <NAME> having been ill-treated and uncared for by her <NAME> or her in-laws, being a highly sensitive and imp ressionate woman she committed suicide out of sheer depression and frustration arising from an emotional upsurge.
Precedent	This is the dominant issue which falls for decision by this Court.
Precedent	Both <ORG> and the trial court rejected the theory of suicide and found that <NAME> was murdered by her <NAME> by administering her a strong dose of potassium cyanide and relied on the Medical evidence as also that of the chemical examiner to show that it was a case of pure and simple homicide rather than that of suicide as alleged by the defence.
Fact	<ORG> while confirming the judgment of the trial court affirmed the death sentence and hence this appeal by special leave.
Fact	Before discussing the facts of the case, it may be mentioned that although <ORG> and the trial court have gone into meticulous and minutest matters pertaining to the circumstances leading to the alleged murder of <NAME>, yet after going through the judgments we feel that the facts of the case lie within a very narrow compass.
Fact	The story of  this unfortunate girl starts on 11.2.1982 when her marriage was solemnised with the appellant preceded by a formal betrothal ceremony on 2.8.8. after the marriage, <NAME>, for the first time, went to her parents' house on 22.2.82 for a very short period and returned to Pune on 26.2.82.
Fact	It is the prosecution case that on 17.3.82 the appellant had called <NAME> at Pearl Hotel where he introduced her to <NAME> and told her that she must act according to the dictates and orders of <NAME> if she wanted to lead a comfortable life with her <NAME>.
Fact	In other words, the suggestion was that the appellant made it clear to his wife that <NAME> was the real mistress of the house and <NAME> was there only to obey her orders.
Fact	After this incident, <NAME> went to her parents' house on 2.4.82 and returned to Pune on 12.4.82.
Fact	This was her second visit.
Fact	The third and perhaps the last visit of <NAME> to her parents' house was on 25.5.82. from where she returned to Pune on 3.6.82, never to return again.
Fact	The reason for her return to Pun e was that her <NAME>-in-law insisted that she should return to Pune because the betrothal ceremony of <NAME> (sister of the appellant) was going to be held on 13.6.82.
Fact	The last step in this unfortunate drama was that <NAME>, accompanied by <NAME> (wife of A-2) and her children, returned to the flat on 11.6.82 near about 11.00 p.m.
Fact	Her <NAME> was not in the apartment at that time but it is alleged by the prosecution that he returned soon after and administered potassium cyanide to <NAME>.
Fact	Thereafter, the appellant went to his brother, <NAME> who was also living in the same flat and brought Dr. <NAME> (PW 24) who was living at a distance of 11/2 Kms from Takshila Apartments.
Fact	At the suggestion of Dr. <NAME> Dr. <NAME> (PW 25) was also called both and of them found that <NAME> was dead and her death was an unnatural one and advised the body to be sent for postmortem in order to determine the cause of death.
Fact	Ultimately, <NAME> (PW 30) was approached on telephone and was informed that <NAME> had died at 5.30  a.m.
RatioOfTheDecision	Subsequently, the usual investigation and the postmortem followed which are not very germane for our purpose at present and would be considered at the appropriate stage.
Fact	The plea of the appellant was that <NAME> was not administered potassium cyanide by him but she appears to have committed suicide out of sheer frustration.
Fact	In order to prove his bona fide the accused relied on the circumstances that as soon as he came to know about the death of his wife he called two Doctors (PWs 24 & 25) and when they declared that <NAME> had died an unnatural death, as the cause of death was not known, and therefore the body had to be sent for postmortem, he immediately took steps to inform the police.
Fact	He flatly denied the allegation of the prosecution that there was any attempt on his part to persuade <NAME> (PW 30) to allow the body of the deceased to be cremated.
RatioOfTheDecision	We might state that <ORG> has mentioned as many as 17 circumstances in order to prove that the circumstantial evidence produced by the prose cution was complete and conclusive, Some of 13 these circumstances overlap, some are irrelevant and some cannot be taken into consideration because they were not put to the appellant in his statement under s. 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to explain the effect of the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to explain the effect of the same as we shall presently show.
RatioOfTheDecision	The law regarding the nature and character of proof of circumstantial evidence has been settled by several authorities of this <ORG> as also of the High <ORG>s, The locus classicus of the decision of this <ORG> is the one rendered in the case of <CITATION_882637> where <NAME>, J. clearly expounded the various concomitants of the proof of a case based purely on circumstantial evidence, and pointed out thus:  "The circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved..... it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act  must have been done by the accused."
RatioOfTheDecision	This decision was followed and endorsed by this <ORG> in the case of <NAME> v. The State of Punjab.
RatioOfTheDecision	We shall however discuss <NAME>'s case fully in a later part of our judgment.
Precedent	Coming now to the question of interpretation of sec.
Precedent	32(1) of The Evidence Act , this <ORG> in the case of <NAME> v. State of Bihar <NAME>, J. made the following observations:  102  "The only relevant clause of s. 32 which may be said to have any bearing is cl.
Precedent	(1) which relates to statements made by a person as to the cause of his death or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death.
Precedent	In the case before us, the statements made by <NAME> do not relate to the cause of her death or to any of the circumstances relating to her death; on the contrary, the statements relate to the death of her sister."
Precedent	In the 'Law of Evidence' by <NAME> & Ameer Ali (Vol.
Precedent	II) the authors have collected all the cases at one place and indicated their conclusions thus: "To  sum up, the test of the relevancy of a statement under Section 32(1) , is not what the final finding in the case is but whether the final finding in the case is but whether the cause of the death of the person making the statement comes into question in the case.
Precedent	The expression 'any of the Circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death'; is wider in scope than the expression 'the cause of his death'; in other words, Clause (1) of Section 32 refers to two kinds of statements: (1) statement made by a person as to the cause of his death, and (2) the statement made by a person as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death.
Precedent	The words, 'resulted in his death' do not mean 'caused his death', Thus it is well settled that declarations are admissible only in so far as they point directly to the fact constituting the res gestae of the homicide; that is to say, to the act of killing and to the circumstances immediately attendant thereon, like threats and difficulties acts, d eclarations and incidents, which constitute or accompany and explain the fact or transaction in issue.
Precedent	They are admissible for or against either party, as forming parts of the res gestae."
Precedent	(P. 952) It would appear that the solid foundation and the pivotal pillar on which rests the edifice of the prosecution may be indicated as follows:-  103  (1) Written dying declaration by the deceased in her letters, two of which were addressed to her sister <NAME> and one her friend <NAME>, (2) The oral statements made by the deceased to her <NAME> (PW 2), mother (PW 20), Sister (PW 6) and her friend (PW 3) and also to PWs 4 and 5 showing her state of mind shortly before her death and the complaints which she made regarding the ill- treatment by her <NAME>, (3) evidence showing that the appellant was last seen with the deceased in the room until the matter was reported to the police.
RatioOfTheDecision	(4) the unnatural and incriminating conduct of the appellant, (5) the medical evidence taken alongwith the Report of the chemical examiner  which demonstrably proves that it was a case of homicide, completely rules out the theory of suicide as alleged by the appellant.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the appellant, has vehemently argued that there was a very strong possibility of the deceased having committed suicide due to the circumstances mentioned in her own letters.
Argument	He has also questioned the legal admissibility of the statements contained in the written and oral dying declarations.
Argument	He has submitted that the so-called dying declarations are admissible neither under s. 32 nor under s.8 of the Evidence Act it was submitted by the appellant that the present case is not at all covered by cl.
Precedent	(1) of s. 32 of the Evidence Acts.
Precedent	The leading decision on this question, which has been endorsed by this Court, is the case of <CITATION_516808> where Lord <NAME> has laid down the following tests:  "It has been suggested that the statement must be made after the transaction has taken place, that the person making it must be at any rate near death, tha t the "circumstances" can only include the acts done when and where the death was caused.
Precedent	Their Lordships are of opinion that the natural meaning of the words used does not convey any of these limitations.
Precedent	The statement may be made before the cause of death has arisen, or before the deceased has any reason to anticipate being killed.
Precedent	The circumstances must be circumstances of the transaction: general expressions indicating fear or suspicion whether of a particular individual or otherwise and not directly related to the occasion of the death will not be admissible----------- Circumstances of the transaction" is a phrase no doubt that conveys some limitations.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not as broad as the analogous use in "circumstantial evidence" which includes evidence of all relevant facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is on the other hand narrower than "res gestae".
RatioOfTheDecision	Circumstances must have some proximate relation to the actual occurrence.
Fact	----------It will be observed that "the circumstances are of the transaction which resulted in the death of the dec larant."
Precedent	These principles were followed and fully endorsed by a decision of this Court in <NAME> & <NAME> v. The State of Uttar Pradesh where the following observations were made:  "It is clear that if the statement of the deceased is to be admissible under this section it must be a statement relating to the circumstances of the transaction resulting in his death.
Precedent	The statement may be made before the cause of death has arisen, or before the deceased has any reason to anticipate being killed,---------A necessary condition of admissibility under the section is that the circumstance must have some proximate relation to the actual occurrence-------  ---- The phrase "circumstances of the transaction" is a phrase that no doubt conveys some limitations.
Precedent	It is not as broad as the analogous use in "circumstantial evidence" which includes evidence of all relevant facts.
Precedent	It is on the other hand narrower than "res gestae" (See Pakala Narayana Swami v. The King Emperor AIR 1939 PC 47).
Precedent	The aforesaid principles have bee n followed by a long catena of authorities of almost all the courts which have been noticed in this case.
Precedent	To mention only a few important once, in <CITATION_165408> , <ORG> of <ORG> observed thus:  The torture administered sometimes manifests itself in various forms.
Precedent	To begin with, it might be mental torture and then it may assume the form of physical torture.
Precedent	The physical harm done to the victim might be increased from stage to stage to have the desired effect.
Precedent	The fatal assault might be made after a considerable interval of time, but if the circumstances of the torture appearing in the writings of the deceased come into existence after the initiation of the torture the same would be held to be relevant as laid down in Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act."
Precedent	We fully agree with the above observations made by the learned Judges.
Precedent	In <NAME> & Anr.
Precedent	v. The <ORG> while relying on <NAME>'s case (supra) <ORG> has clearly pointed out the nature and limits  of the doctrine of proximity and has observed that in some cases where there is a sustained cruelty, the proximity may extend even to a period of three years.
Precedent	In this connection, <ORG> observed thus:  "The 'transaction' in this case is systematic ill treatment for years since the marriage of <NAME> with incitement to end her life.
Precedent	Circumstances of the transaction include evidence of cruelty which produces a state of mind favourable to suicide.
Precedent	Although that would not by itself be sufficient unless there was evidence of incitement to end her life it would be relevant as evidence.
Precedent	This observation taken as a whole would, in my view, imply that the time factor is not always a criterion in determining whether the piece of evidence is properly included within "circumstances of transaction. "
Precedent	--------"In that case the allegation was that there was sustained cruelty extending over a period of three years interspersed with exhortation to the victim to end her life."
Precedent	His Lordship further observed and held th at the evidence of cruelty was one continuous chain, several links of which were touched up by the exhortations to die.
Precedent	"Thus evidence of cruelty, ill treatment and exhortation to end her life adduced in the case must be held admissible, together with the statement of <NAME> (who committed suicide) in that regard which related to the circumstances terminating in suicide."
Precedent	Similarly, in <CITATION_1029775> while following the decision of <ORG> in <NAME> case (supra), <ORG> has explained the nature of the circumstances contemplated by s. 32 of the Evidence Act thus:  "The circumstances must have some proximate relation to the Actual occurrence and they can only include the acts done when and where the death was caused.------- Thus a statement merely suggesting motive for a crime cannot be admitted in evidence unless it is so intimately connected with the transaction itself as to be a circumstance of the transaction.
Precedent	In the instant case evidence has been led a bout statements made by the deceased long before this incident which may suggest motive for the crime."
Precedent	<CITATION_1866831> , <ORG> has taken a similar view.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. State of Mad ras two eminent Judges of <ORG> while dealing with the connotation of the word 'circumstances' observed thus:  "The special circumstance permitted to transgress the time factor is, for example, a case of prolonged poisoning, while the special circumstance permitted to transgress the distance factor is, for example, a case of decoying with intent to murder.
Precedent	This is because the natural meaning of the words, according to their Lordships, do not convey any of the limitations such as that the statement must be made after the transaction has taken place, that the person making it must be at any rate near death, that the circumstances can only include acts done when and where the death was caused.
Precedent	But the circumstances must be circumstances of the transaction and they must have some proximate re lation to the actual occurrence."
Precedent	In <NAME> v. The State <ORG> has somewhat diluted the real concept of proximity and observed thus:  'In the present case, it cannot be said that statements in the letters have no relation to the cause of death.
Precedent	What drove her to kill herself was undoubtedly her unhappy state of mind, but the statements in my view have not that proximate relation to the actual occurrence as to make them admissible under s. 32(1) , Evidence Act .
Precedent	They cannot be said to be circumstances of the transaction which resulted in death."
Precedent	We, however, do not approve of the observations made by <ORG> in view of the clear decision of this <ORG> and that of the privy Council.
Precedent	With due respect, <ORG> has not properly interpreted the tenor and the spirit of the ratio laid down by <ORG>.
Precedent	We are, therefore, of the opinion that this case does not lay down the correct law on the subject.
Precedent	Before closing this chapter we might state that the India n law on the question of the nature and scope of dying declaration has made a distinct departure from the English law where only the statements which directly relate to the cause of death are admissible.
Precedent	The second part of cl.
Precedent	(1) of 32, viz.
Precedent	"the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that person's death comes into question" is not be found in the English law.
Precedent	This distinction has been clearly pointed out in the case of <NAME> v. The <ORG> where the following observations were made:  "Clause (1) of s. 32 of the Indian Evidence Act provides that statements, written or verbal, of relevant facts made by a person who is dead,--------are themselves rele-  108  vant facts when the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in case, in which the cause of that person's death comes into question.---------- It is well settled by now that there is difference be tween the Indian Rule and the English Rule with regard to the necessity of the declaration having been made under expectation of death.
Precedent	In the English Law the declaration should have been made under the sense of impending death whereas under the Indian Law it is not necessary for the admissibility of a dying declaration that the deceased at the time of making it should have been under the expectation of death.
Precedent	And in the case of <CITATION_487225> .
Precedent	it was observed thus:  "The law in India does not make the admissibility of a dying declaration dependent upon the person's having a consciousness of the approach of death.
Precedent	Even if the person did not apprehend that he would die, a statement made by him about the circumstances of his death would be admissible under s. 32 .
Precedent	Evidence Act .
Precedent	In these circumstances, therefore, it is futile to refer to English cases on the subject.
Precedent	Thus, from a review of the authorities mentioned above and the clear language of s.32(1) of the Evidence Act , the following propositions  emerge:-  (1) Section 32 is an exception to the rule of hearsay and makes admissible the statement of a person who dies, whether the death is a homicide or a suicide, provided the statement relates to the cause of death, or exhibits circumstances leading to death.
Precedent	In this respect, as indicated above, the Indian Evidence Act , in view of the peculiar conditions of our society and the diverse nature and character of our people, has thought it necessary to widen the sphere of s.32 to avoid injustice.
Precedent	(2) The test of proximity cannot be too literally construed and practically reduced to a cut-and-dried formula of universal application so as to be confined in a straitjacket.
Precedent	Distance of time would depend or vary with the circumstances of each case.
Precedent	For instance, where death is a logical culmination of a continuous drama long in process and is, as it were, a finale of the story, the statement regarding each step directly connected with the end of the drama would be admissible because the entire statement would have  to be read as an organic whole and not torn from the context.
Precedent	Sometimes statements relevant to or furnishing an immediate motive may also be admissible as being a part of the transaction of death.
Precedent	It is manifest that all these statements come to light only after the death of the deceased who speaks from death.
Precedent	For instance, where the death takes place within a very short time of the marriage or the distance of time is not spread over more than 3-4 months the statement may be admissible under s.32.
Precedent	(3) The second part of cl.1 of s.32 is yet another exception to the rule that in criminal law the evidence of a person who was not being subjected to or given an opportunity of being cross-examined by the accused, would be valueless because the place of cross- examination is taken by the solemnity and sanctity of oath for the simple reason that a person on the verge of death is not likely to make a false statement unless there is strong evidence to show that the statement was secured either by prompting or tutorin g. (4) It may be important to note that s.32 does not speak of homicide alone but includes suicide also, hence all the circumstances which may be relevant to prove a case of homicide would be equally relevant to prove a case of suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	(5) Where the main evidence consists of statements and letters written by the deceased which are directly connected with or related to her death and which reveal a tell-tale story, the said statement would clearly fall within the four corners of s.32 and, therefore, admissible.
RatioOfTheDecision	The distance of time alone in such cases would not make the statement irrelevant.
RatioOfTheDecision	This now brings us to a close consideration of the contents of the letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and 33) written by <NAME> to her sister and friend.
RatioOfTheDecision	We propose to examine the contents of the letters for four purposes:  1) in order to find out the state of mind and psychological attitude of <NAME>,  2) the nature of <NAME>'s attitude towards her <NAME> and in-laws,  3) the amount of tension and frustration which seems to be clearly  expressed in the letters and  4) to determine <NAME>'s personal traits and psychological approach to life to determine if she was ever capable of or prone to committing suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	We start with the letter dated 8.5.82 (Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	30) which was addressed to her sister <NAME> and is printed at page 191 of Part I of the printed Paperbook.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned counsel for the appellant in order to make our task easy has supplied the English translation as also the Roman script of the original letter.
RatioOfTheDecision	On a comparison of the two versions, we are of the opinion that by and large the English translation printed in the Paperbook is a true and faithful rendering of the contents of the original letter.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not necessary for us to extract the entire letter but we propose to extract only the relevant portions which seek to explain and illustrate the four purposes mentioned above.
Precedent	"All read the letter with curiosity, or it may go to anybody's hand.
Precedent	I do not want to take any risk.
Precedent	So I have taken up today for writing, the second letter to  you."
Precedent	The Roman scripy runs thus:-  (P.191) "Khat to sabhi utsukta se padte hain.
Precedent	Kahin kisi ke hath pad saktahai.
Precedent	Aisi risk leni nahin aai.
Precedent	Isliye maine tumhe aaj doosra khat likhneko liya."
Precedent	(P.17) An analysis of the above clearly shows that <NAME> was a highly secretive woman and wanted to keep her personal matters or secrets to herself except giving a rough idea or a passing glimpse of her feelings only to those who were very close to her as friends or near relations.
Precedent	The extract shows that perhaps in a spell of heavy emotions she had written a very long letter to her sister whom she regarded as her best friend but on second thought she tore it off lest it may fall in anybody's hands and she was not prepared to take such a risk.
Precedent	This mentality and noble nature would be of great assistance to us in assessing the probative value of the statements made by her to her parents, sister and friend during her last visit to <NAME>.
Precedent	The second paragraph, which is extracted below, reflects her state of mind and the tens ion and torture which she was undergoing:  "Now in this letter, when (Out of) the things coming to my mind which cannot be written, I do not understand what is to be written, The State of mind now is very much the same.
Precedent	Enough.
Precedent	You understand (me).
Precedent	I am undergoing a very difficult test.
Precedent	I am unable to achieve it.
Precedent	Till I could control (myself), well and good.
Precedent	When it becomes impossible, some other way will have to be evolved.
Precedent	Let us see what happens.
Precedent	All right."
Argument	(P.191) She has hinted that hinted that she was passing through difficult times but was trying to control herself as much as she could.
Argument	She has further indicated that if things did not improve then she may have to evolve some other method.
RatioOfTheDecision	The exact words used in the Roman script runs thus:  "Jab tak sambhal sakti hoon theek hai jab assambhab ho jayega to phir rasta nikalna padega, dekhenge kya kya hota hai,"  The words "some other way will have to be evolved"  clearly gives a clue to her psychotic state of mind and seem to suggest that the other meth od to get rid of all her troubles was to commit suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is pertinent to note that in the first two paragraphs of her letter extracted above there is no indication nor any hint about the conduct of her <NAME>.
Precedent	In the third para of her letter she states her feelings thus: "I thought much that since the house of my <NAME>'s parents is at Pune, I would do this and that or the people from the house of my <NAME>'s parents are free.
Precedent	However, I have gradually come to know that in that house, the worth of a daughter-in-law is no more than that of a laborer."
Precedent	(P.191) The relevant portion in the Roman script reads thus: "Is ghar mein bahu ki keemat majdoor se jyada nahin hai."
Precedent	(P. 18) At the end or the third paragraph she repeats her sad plight thus:  "My state here however is like an unclaimed person.
Precedent	Let it be gone.
Precedent	I do not like to weep (over it).
Precedent	When we will meet, we will talk all the things."
Precedent	In the middle of the 4th paragraph she comes out with an emotional outburst by indicating that all her hopes had  been shattered and because of being neglected by her <NAME> her health was adversely affected.
Precedent	In the Roman script she used the following words:  "Sachmuch kya kya sapne rahte hain kuarepanmein, magar toote huye dekhkar dilpar kya gujarti hai.
Precedent	Vaise tu maine kuch bhi sapne nahin dekhe the, bas ek hi sapna tha ki mera <NAME> mujhse bahut pyar kare, magar abhi wo bhi na pakar dilki halat per kaboo nahin pa sak rahi.
Precedent	Tabiyat par uska asar dikh raha hai."
Precedent	(P. 19-20) In the latter part of the 8th paragraph while giving vent to her feelings she states thus:  "Now <NAME> is moving, it is necessary to tell that she is alive.
Precedent	You don't tell anybody about this letter.
Precedent	I felt like telling all this to <NAME>.
Precedent	What, however, is the use of making him sorry.
Precedent	One should test one's fate, whatever may be the result.
Precedent	I want to tell you all.
Precedent	But I cannot tell."
Precedent	The words used by her show her affectionate and secretive nature and the precaution taken by her not to tell any thing to her <NAME>, who is addressed as '<NAME>'.
Precedent	The  Roman script of the relevant portion runs thus:  113  "Dil tu karta tha Bai Bhau Sahab ko sab bataon, magar unko dukh dekar kya phaida.
Precedent	<NAME>, natija kya nikalta hai.
Precedent	<NAME> magar bata nahin sakti."
Precedent	(P.22) These extracts throw a flood of light on the nature, character, mental attitude, suffering and shock of the deceased.
Precedent	One thing which may be conspicuously noticed is that she was prepared to take all the blame on her rather than incriminate her <NAME> or her inlaws.
Precedent	The other portions of the letter (Ex.30) are not at all germane for the purpose of this case.
Precedent	Summarising the main contents of the letter, the following conclusions or inferences follow:  (a) <NAME> was a highly emotional and sensitive woman,  (b) She got the shock of her life when due to ill- treatment by her <NAME> and in-laws she found that all her dreams had been shattered to pieces after marriage leaving her a dejected, depressed and disappointed woman,  (c) she had been constantly ill-treat ed by her in-laws and her position in the house was nothing but that of an unpaid maid-servant or a labourer,  (d) she wanted to keep all her worries and troubles to herself and on no account was she prepared to disclose them to her parents or even to her sister, lest they also get depressed and distressed.
Precedent	(e) no serious allegation of cruelty had been made against the <NAME> personally by her and she thought that she herself should suffer out of sheer frustration.
Precedent	Now we shall examine Ex.32 which is a letter dated 8.6.82 written by <NAME> to her sister <NAME>.
Precedent	This was perhaps her last letter to <NAME> and is very important and relevant for decision of the case.
Precedent	The letter begins with the words "I am happy here."
Precedent	In the second paragraph she expresses her feelings as follows:  "<NAME>'s 'Sadi' programme is fixed on 13th I do not know why there is such a dirty atmosphere in the house ?
Precedent	It is felt every moment that something will happen.
Precedent	114  Everybody is in tension.
Precedent	No work has been started in the house.
Precedent	Let  it go.
Precedent	I am out of mind.
Precedent	Still I am used not to pay need to it.
Precedent	<NAME> what about your law."
Precedent	(P.195) So far as the first part is concerned, the 'dirty atmosphere' about which she speaks is totally unrelated to anything done by the <NAME> or of any cruel treatment by him; it merely refers to the tension prevailing in the family as the '<NAME>' (<NAME>) was fixed on 13.6.82.
Precedent	Her anger is not so much towards her <NAME> or herself as for the manner in which things were being done.
Precedent	She complained that no work had been started and being the eldest daughter in law of the family she felt it her duty to see that all arrangements were complete.
Precedent	It was conceded by the Additional Solicitor-General that this portion of the letter does not refer to any ill-treatment by the <NAME> or his parents but relates only to the defective and unsatisfactory arrangements for such an important function.
Precedent	The relevant portion of the 3rd paragraph is also more or less innocuous but in between the lines it contains a tale of woe, a spirit of  desperation and frustration and a wave of pessimism.
Precedent	the actual vernacular words are-  "Mera to aane ka kya hota hai dekna hai Buajike yahan se khat aur aaya to shahid chance mil sakta hai.
Precedent	Magar meri mangal ke dulhan ke roop mein dekhne ki bahut ichha hai.
Precedent	Dekhenge."
Precedent	She was naturally apprehending some thing and was not very hopeful of going to her <NAME>'s place.
Precedent	This being her last letter, and that too a short one, it gives a clear inkling of the manner of how her mind was working.
Precedent	She did not lay any blame on her <NAME> or anybody else but still she was afraid that something was going to happen and that she may not be able to go to her <NAME> and see the marriage of her sister-in-law for which preparations were being made.
Precedent	In our opinion, these words are extremely prophetic and seem to indicate that by that time she had almost made up her mind to end her life instead of carrying on her miserable existence.
Precedent	As brevity is the soul of wit, she directly hinted that she may not be able to meet her <NAME> o r any body naturally because when a life comes to an end there can be no such question.
Precedent	Exh.
Precedent	32, though a short letter, depicts her real feeling and perhaps a tentative decision which she may have already taken but did not want to disclose for obvious reasons.
Precedent	115  Then we come to Exh.33 which is a letter dated 23.4.82 written by the deceased to her close friend, <NAME> and which shows her exact feelings, changing, mood and emotions.
Precedent	This is the only letter where she had made clear complaints against her <NAME> and the relevant portions may be extracted thus:  "Really, <NAME>, I remember you very much.
Precedent	Even if I am little uneasy, I feel that you should have been near with me.
Precedent	All persons here are very good.
Precedent	Everybody is loving.
Precedent	Still I feel lonely.
Precedent	One reason is that, in the house there are many persons and they are elder to me and such I do not dare to do any work independently.
Precedent	Every time some fear is in mind which leads to confusion.
Precedent	God knows when I can come there ?
Precedent	The point on which we had discussio n is as it was.
Precedent	<NAME>.
Fact	I swear you if you talk to anyone.
Fact	I am much in pains.
Fact	But what else can I do ?
Fact	No other go than that, and the same mistake is done again and again by me.
Fact	It is that I go ahead and talk for ten times, then I become angry if he does not speak.
Fact	<NAME>, there is nothing in my hands except to weep profusely.
Fact	At least till now this man has no time to mind his wife, let it be, but <NAME>, what shall I do?"
Fact	(P.196) "Who knows what hardships be-fall on me, so long I am alive.
Fact	Why the god has become (unkind) towards me."
Fact	(P. 197) "Since yesterday I have made up my mind not to speak a word even, till he speaks (to me).
Fact	Let me see to what extent I control my feelings.
Fact	<NAME>, you also pray to god for me whether a girl like me should be put to such a difficult test.
RulingByLowerCourt	<NAME>, I am so much afraid of him that the romantic enchantment during first 10-15 days after marriage has become like a dream."
RulingByLowerCourt	"I cannot dare to ask him whether his clothes be taken for wash. At present my status is only that of a m aid servant without pay as of right.
Fact	116  Why so much indifference towards me only ?
Fact	<NAME>, I, feel to weep in your arms.
Fact	<NAME> come to Pune early.
Fact	On getting up every morning I feel he will speak today but every day I am hoping against hope.
Fact	<NAME>, what will happen ?
Fact	Now there is no ray of hope.
Fact	Day before yesterday I became excited and uttered in rage.
Fact	"You hate me, was I unable to get food in my parent's house ?
Fact	He was irritated due to word 'hate'.
Fact	He said.
Fact	if you talk more like this, I will be very bad man.
Fact	If this goes on, I will not come to sleep.
Fact	That means not permitted (to cry) also.
Fact	How he says to me, are you tired of me so early ?
Fact	What shall I say to such a man.
Precedent	Once I feel that he does not count me.
Precedent	On second thought, I feel he cares me much.
Precedent	But due to moody nature, it will take time to pacify the same.
Precedent	On the day on which self-pride is lessened, no other person will be more fortunate than me But till that day it is not certain that I will be alive."
Precedent	(P. 197) In the second paragraph she st arts by giving an indication that she was feeling uneasy and would have very much liked to have <NAME> with her.
Precedent	In the third paragraph she clearly states that all persons in her <NAME>-in-laws' place were very good and loving but due to a number of persons in the house she did not get a chance to work independently.
Precedent	The last line "every time some fear is in mind which leads to confusion" is the starting point of the first symptom of her invisible fear which she was unable to locate.
RulingByLowerCourt	The fourth paragraph is rather important which shows that whatever her feelings may have been she sought an oath from <NAME> not to talk to anyone regarding the matters which she proposed to write in the said letter.
RulingByLowerCourt	She says that she was much in pains and hints that she weeps profusely and the reason given by her for this is that she went on committing mistakes and talked to her <NAME> many times but his silence was extremely painful which made her angry.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the last portion, for the first time, she makes a direct complaint aga inst her <NAME> to the effect that he had no time to look after her (<NAME>).
RulingByLowerCourt	In the same paragraph she describes her hardships and complains why God was unkind to her.
RulingByLowerCourt	She further expresses her sentiments that the romantic enchantment which she experienced during the first few days of her marriage had completely disappeared and looks like a lost dream or a "Paradise lost".
RulingByLowerCourt	Then she describes her plight as being a maid-servant without pay.
RulingByLowerCourt	She again complains of indifference towards her.
RatioOfTheDecision	Ultimately, she hopes against hope that some day he will speak to her and discuss the problems but there is no response.
RatioOfTheDecision	Later, she refers to a particular incident and goes to the extent of telling him that he hates her.
RatioOfTheDecision	This seems to have irritated the <NAME> who resented this remark very much.
RatioOfTheDecision	Again in the same breath towards the end of the paragraph, while she says that her <NAME> does not care for her yet she at once changes her mind and says that he cares for her much but due to his moody nature it will take time to pa cify him.
RatioOfTheDecision	Her feelings again take a sudden turn when she says that when her <NAME>'s self-pride is lessened none would be more fortunate than her.
RatioOfTheDecision	The next line is rather important because she hints that till the said heyday comes perhaps she might not be alive.
RulingByLowerCourt	A careful perusal of this letter reveals the following features-  (1) after going to her marital home she felt completely lost and took even minor things to her heart and on the slightest provocation she became extremely sentimental and sensitive.
RulingByLowerCourt	(2) She exhibited mixed feelings of optimism and pessimism at the same time.
RulingByLowerCourt	(3) it can easily be inferred that she did not have any serious complaint against her <NAME> but she became sad and morose because she was not getting the proper attention which she thought she would get.
RulingByLowerCourt	(4) There is no indication that she expected any danger from her <NAME> nor is there anything to show that things had come to such a pass that a catastrophe may have resulted.
RatioOfTheDecision	There may be certain concealed and hidden hints w hich she was not prepared to reveal in writing : what they were is not clear.
RatioOfTheDecision	(5) A close reading and analysis of the letter clearly shows at least two things-  118  (a) that she felt extremely depressed,  (b) that there was a clear tendency resulting from her psychotic nature to end her life or commit suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	This possibility is spelt out from the various letters which we have extracted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, if this was not so how could it be possible that while not complaining against her <NAME> she gives a hint not only to <NAME> but also to <NAME> that she might not live.
RatioOfTheDecision	She mentions of no such threat having been given to her by <NAME> at any time or anywhere.
RatioOfTheDecision	(6) The contents of the letter lead us to the irresistible conclusion that <NAME> felt herself lonely and desolate and was treated as nothing but a chattel or a necessary evil ever since she entered her marital home.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, from the recitals in the letters we can safely hold that there was a clear possibility and a tendency on her part to commit suicide due  to desperation and frustration.
RatioOfTheDecision	She seems to be tired of her married life, but she still hoped against hope that things might improve.
RatioOfTheDecision	At any rate, the fact that she may have committed suicide cannot be safely excluded or eliminated.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be that her <NAME> may have murdered her but when two views are reasonably possible the benefit must go to the accused.
Precedent	In order to buttress our opinion, we would like to cite some passages of an eminent psychiatrist, <NAME> where in his book 'Death, Society and Human Experience' he analyses the causes, the circumstances, the moods and emotions which may drive a person to commit suicide.
Precedent	The learned author has written that a person who is psychotic in nature and suffers from depression and frustration is more prone to commit suicide than any other person.
Precedent	In support of our view, we extract certain passages from his book :  "The fact is that some people who commit suicide can be classified as psychotic or severely disturbed.
Precedent	(P.242) If we are concerned with  the probability of suicide in very large populations, then mental and emotional disorder is a relevant variable to consider.
Precedent	(P.243) And it is only through a gross distortion of the actual circumstances that one could claim all suicides are enacted in a spell of madness.
Precedent	(P.243) "Seen in these terms, suicide is simply one of the ways in which a relatively weak member of society loses out in the jungle like struggle.
Precedent	(P.243) The individual does not destroy himself in hope of thereby achieving a noble postmortem reputation or a place among the eternally blessed.
Precedent	Instead he wishes to subtract himself from a life whose quality seems a worse evil than death.
Precedent	(P.245) The newly awakened spirit of hope and progress soon became shadowed by a sense of disappointment and resignation that, it sometimes seemed, only death could swallow.
Precedent	(P.245) Revenge fantasies and their association with suicide are well known to people who give ear to those in emotional distress."
Precedent	(P.251) "People who attempt suicide for reasons ot her than revenge may also act on the assumption that, in a sense, they will survive the death to benefit by its effect.
Precedent	xx xx xx The victim of suicide may also be the victim of self-expectations that have not been fulfilled.
Precedent	The sense of disappointment and frustration may have much in common with that experienced by the person who seeks revenge though suicide-However, for some people a critical moment arrives when the discrepancy is experienced as too glaring and painful to be tolerated.
Precedent	If something has to go it may be the person himself, not the perhaps excessively high standards by which the judgment has been made-<NAME> and his colleagues found that a sense of failure is prominent among many people who take their own lives."
Precedent	(P.252) The above observations are fully applicable to the case of <NAME>.
Precedent	She solemnly believed that her holy union with her <NAME> would bring health and happiness to her but unfortunately it seems to have ended in a melancholy marriage which in view of the circumstances det ailed above, left her so lonely and created so much of emotional disorder resulting from frustration and pessimism that she was forced to end her life.
Precedent	There can be no doubt that <NAME> was not only a sensitive and sentimental woman but was extremely impressionate and the letters show that a constant conflict between her mind and body was going on and unfortunately the circumstances which came into existence hastened her end.
Precedent	People with such a psychotic philosophy or bent of mind always dream of an ideal and if the said ideal fails, the failure drives them to end their life, for they feel that no charm is left in their life.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> in their book 'The Melancholy Marriage' observe that-  "Studies of attempted suicides cases have also revealed the high incidence of marital problems which lie behind the act.
Precedent	In our own study of 100 consecutive cases (<NAME> and <NAME> 1969), we found that most of them could be understood if the patients interactions with others i n their environment were considered."
Precedent	(P.5) Such persons possess a peculiar psychology which instils extreme love and devotion but when they are faced with disappointment or find their environment so unhealthy of unhappy, they seem to loose all the charms of life.
Precedent	The authors while describing these sentiments observe thus :  "Hopelessness', 'despair', 'lousy, and 'miserable' draw attention to the relationship of the depressed person to his environment.
Precedent	The articulate depressed person will often also struggle to put into words the fact that not only does there appear to be no way forward and thus no point to life-but that the world actually looks different."
Precedent	(P.7) <NAME> in `Ode to Dejection' in his usual ironical manner has very beautifully explained the sentiments of such persons thus :  "I see them all so excellently fair-  I see, not feel, how beautiful they are ;"  At another place the author (<NAME>, <NAME> & <NAME>) come to the final conclusion that ruptured personal relationship play a major par t in the clinical picture and in this connection observed thus :  "Initially we applied these ideas to study of cases of attempted suicide (<NAME> and <NAME> 1969) and although we did not assume that they were all necessarily depressed, we looked for distal and proximal causes for their behaviour and found that ruptured personal relationships played a major part in the clinical picture."
Precedent	(P.50) The observations of the authors aptly and directly apply to the nature, mood and the circumstances of the unfortunate life of <NAME> which came to an end within four months of marriage.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have pointed out these circumstances because <ORG> has laid very great stress on the fact that the evidence led by the prosecution wholly and completely excludes the possibility of suicides and the death of <NAME> was nothing but a dastardly murder.
RatioOfTheDecision	We shall now deal with the next limb of the oral dying declaration said to have been made by the deceased to her parents and friends.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some of the statements which have a causal  connection with the death of <NAME> or the circumstances leading to her death are undoubtedly admissible under s.32 of the Evidence Act as held by us but other statements which do not bear any proximity with the death or if at all very remotely and indirectly connected with the death would not be admissible.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unfortunately, however, the two kinds of statements are so inextricably mixed up that it would take a great effort in locating the part which is admissible and the one which is not.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before discussing the evidence of the witnesses we might mention a few preliminary remarks against the background of which the oral statements are to be considered.
RatioOfTheDecision	All persons to whom the oral statements are said to have been made by <NAME> when she visited Beed for the last time, are close relatives and friends of the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the close relationship and affection any person in the position of the witness would naturally have a tendency to exaggerate or add facts which may not have been stated to them at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	Not  that is done consciously but even unconsciously the love and affection for the deceased would create a psychological hatred against the supposed murderer and, therefore, the court has to examine such evidence with very great care and caution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if the witnesses were speaking a part of the truth or perhaps the whole of it, they would be guided by a spirit of revenge or nemesis against the accused person and in this process certain facts which may not or could not have been stated may be imagined to have been stated unconsciously by the witnesses in order to see that the offender is punished.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is human psychology and no one can help it.
RatioOfTheDecision	This now takes us to a consideration of the evidence of the witnesses concerned which read together with the letters form a composite chain of evidence regarding the causes or the circumstance relating to the death of the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	According to the prosecution, the last visit of <NAME> to Beed was on 25.5.82 where she stayed till 3rd of June 1982 when she was brought back  by the <NAME> of the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the narration of the troubles and tribulations of <NAME> was made only during her last visit and not earlier.
RatioOfTheDecision	These statements are alleged to have been made to <NAME> (PW 2), <NAME>'s <NAME>, <NAME> (PW 3), who was <NAME>'s friend and referred to as `<NAME>' in the letter Ex.33, <NAME> (PW 6), <NAME>'s sister to whom letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30 and 32) were written, and PW-20, <NAME>, the mother of <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> (PW 5) was also examined but we are not in a position to rely on the evidence of this witness for two reasons -(1) she does not figure anywhere in any of the letters written by <NAME>, and (2) nothing was told to her by <NAME> directly but she was merely informed regarding the incidents mentioned by PW-2.
RatioOfTheDecision	This sort of indirect evidence is not worthy of any credence.
RatioOfTheDecision	123  We would first deal with the evidence of PW-2, <NAME> (<NAME>'s <NAME>).
RatioOfTheDecision	We shall give a summary of the relevant part of his evidence because the other parts relate to how th e marriage was performed and the spouses had gone for honeymoon which are not germane for our purpose.
Fact	The witness states that when <NAME> came to Beed with her maternal uncle he found her somewhat uneasy and on making enquiries whether she was happy at her <NAME>'s house she told him that she was not very happy with her <NAME> since she noticed that her <NAME> was not very much pleased with her and in fact hated her.
RatioOfTheDecision	These facts are the result of the usual domestic quarrels between a <NAME> and a wife, hence this statement cannot be said to be so directly or proximately related to the death of <NAME> so as to be admissible under s.32 of the Evidence Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears from his evidence that even after hearing the narration from his daughter he advised her to get herself adjusted to the situation and to the atmosphere of her new marital home.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from being inadmissible this does not appear to be of any assistance to the prosecution in proving the case of murder alleged against the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	The witness g oes on to state that as the grandfather of the accused had died he visited Pune, accompanied by his wife and <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Since this was more or less a formal visit for expressing his condolences to the bereaved family, he left <NAME> at the house of the accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	The only part of his evidence on which reliance was placed by the prosecution is that he had noticed <NAME> very much disturbed and uneasy and requested <NAME> (<NAME> of the accused) to allow him to take <NAME> to the house of <NAME>, which he did.
RatioOfTheDecision	On reaching the house of <NAME>, the witness states that <NAME> completely broke down and started weeping and fell in the grip of her mother.
RatioOfTheDecision	This state of <NAME>, which the witness saw with his own eyes, would undoubtedly be primary evidence of what he saw and felt though not in any way connected with s. 32 of the Evidence Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	But from this circumstance alone it cannot be safely inferred that <NAME> apprehended any serious danger to her life from her <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The witness further states that he informed <NAME> ichand about the grievances made to him by <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellant, <NAME>, was sent for and he quietly listened to his <NAME> but the witness felt that whatever <NAME> may have told to his son that does not appear to have made any serious impact on him (appellant) and he left the room.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is purely an opinion evidence and therefore not admissible.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even so, the accused perhaps did not think it necessary to enter into arguments with his <NAME>-in-law in the presence of his <NAME> and that is why he may have kept quiet.
RatioOfTheDecision	From this no inference can be drawn that he was in any way inimically disposed towards <NAME> or was animated by a desire to take her life.
Precedent	The witness further stated that he found that <NAME> was weeping every now and then during the night at <NAME>'s place.
Precedent	Later, in the morning the witness took <NAME> back to her in-laws house but his grievance was that <NAME> did not care to meet or talk to them.
Precedent	These are however small circumstances which are incidents of any married life and from this no  adverse inference can be drawn against the appellant.
Precedent	Another complaint made in the statement was that when he made a voluntary offer to solve the difficulties of <NAME>, the appellant curtly told him that he did not want to get his difficulties solved by other persons and at this attitude of <NAME> the witness was naturally very much disappointed.
RatioOfTheDecision	This conduct of the accused also is not of such an importance as to lead to any adverse inference.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some persons who have a keen sense of pride and self-respect do not like anyone else not even their <NAME> or <NAME>-in-law to interfere in their personal matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	Perhaps this may be the reason for the somewhat cool and curt attitude of <NAME> but that proves nothing.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, experience shows that where elders try to intermeddle in the affairs of a <NAME> and his wife, this creates a serious obstruction in the relations of the married couple.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nothing therefore, turns upon this statement of PW 2.
RatioOfTheDecision	Again, the witness repeats that when <NAME> came down to see him off  he noticed her weeping all the time.
RatioOfTheDecision	To cut a long story short, the witness came back to Beed and sent his son <NAME> to bring <NAME> from Pune to Beed.
Precedent	On reaching there he was informed that <NAME> and <NAME> had gone on a holiday trip to Mysore, Triupati, etc.
Precedent	After the return of <NAME> to Beed, <NAME> informed the witness that <NAME> and <NAME> had returned to Pune and therefore, he sent his son, <NAME> to Pune to bring back <NAME>.
Precedent	When <NAME> arrived at Beed, the witness found her totally disturbed and frightened.
RulingByLowerCourt	This statement would be admissible as primary evidence.
RulingByLowerCourt	What probative value should be attached to this small matter is a different issue.
RulingByLowerCourt	125  Thereafter, the witness was told the incidents by his wife (PW 20) which had been narrated to her by <NAME> but that is of no value so far as this witness is concerned as the main evidence would be that of PW 20.
RulingByLowerCourt	However, in order to save the marriage from a a total break-down the witness was extremely worried and therefore, he called one <NAME>, a c lose acquaintance of the family of accused, who told him (witness) that he was going to Hyderabad and after 4th-5th June some solution would be found out.
RulingByLowerCourt	At the same time, he advised the witness not to make any haste in sending back <NAME> to Pune.
RulingByLowerCourt	On the 2nd June 1982, <NAME> arrived at Beed and requested the witness to send <NAME> to Pune because the marriage of <NAME>'s daughter was fixed for 30th June 1982 and the Kohl (betrothal) ceremony was to be held on the 13th of June so that <NAME> may be present at the ceremony and look after the arrangements.
RulingByLowerCourt	The witness says that after hearing this he apprised <NAME> that <NAME> was extremely frightened and that she was not ready to go back to her <NAME>'s house nor was he (witness) willing to send her back so soon.
Fact	He suggested to <NAME> that as the marriage of his nephew was to be celebrated at Beed on 25th June, <NAME> would come to attend the marriage and at that time he can take <NAME> with him.
Fact	<NAME>, however, persuaded the witness to se nd back <NAME> and assured him that no harm of any kind would come to her and he also promised that <NAME> would be sent back to Beed, The most important statement in the evidence of this witness may be extracted thus :  "I was having this talk with <NAME> on the first floor of my house.
Fact	<NAME> heard this from the staircase, called me out in the ground portion of the house and told me that she was not in a position to go to the house of the accused.
Fact	Since she was in a state of fear or extreme fear in her mind and she also told me that she was not prepared to go to the house of the accused.
Precedent	** ** ** Therefore, after the meals I sent <NAME> with <NAME>.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> then left Beed by about 12.30 p.m. by bus on 3rd of June, 82.
Precedent	At that time <NAME> was constantly weeping right from inside my house till the bus left.
Precedent	She was also in a state of extreme fear."
Precedent	(P. 197) The witness has said many times in his statement that <NAME> was always weeping and crying and the final crisis came when on hear ing the talks between him and <NAME> she called him from the staircase and told him that she was not prepared to go to her <NAME>'s house as she was in a state of extreme fear.
Argument	It is difficult to believe this part of the evidence of the witness for two reasons-  (1) When the talks were going on between two elders would <NAME> be sitting near the staircase to listen their talks and call her <NAME> and give vent to her feelings and her decision not to go back to Pune at any cost.
RatioOfTheDecision	This conduct appears to be directly opposed not only to the tenor and spirit of the letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and 33) which we have discussed but also against her mental attitude and noble nature.
RatioOfTheDecision	(2) As indicated by us while discussing the letters- could a woman who was so affectionate and reserved in nature and who would not like the contents of her letters to <NAME> and <NAME> to be disclosed to her parents lest they feel worried, disturbed and distressed-suddenly turn turtle, forgetting her sentiments not to worry them and come out  in the open to declare before all by weeping and crying that she was in a state of extreme fear, seem to us to be inherently improbable.
RatioOfTheDecision	Once a mature woman develops a particular nature or habit or a special bent of mind she is not likely to forgo her entire nature-in this case, her affection and love for her parents and the feeling of not doing anything which may cause distress or worry to them, and start telling her woeful story to everyone whom she met.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> must have known fully that her <NAME>'s sister's betrothal ceremony was to be held on 13th June and if her <NAME>-in-law was making request after request to take her to Pune to attend the said ceremony, and had given all sorts of assurances that no harm would come to her, would she still call her <NAME> and express her state of fear and go on repeating what she had already said.
RatioOfTheDecision	This seems to us to be an afterthought or an embellishment introduced in the evidence of the witness so as to add credence to the prosecution story and provide an imaginary  motive for the murder of the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, if she was bent on resisting all attempts of her <NAME>-in-law to take her to Pune she would not have gone at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, her subsequent conduct of ultimately going to Pune and making arrangements for the Kohl ceremony belies the story put forward by the witness.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is extremely difficult for a person to change a particular bent of mind or a trait of human nature unless there are substantial and compelling circumstances to do so.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the instant case, we find no such compelling circumstance even taking the statement of the witness at its face value.
RatioOfTheDecision	To take the other side of the picture, the witness says that when he reached Pune on 12.6.82 and visited the place where <NAME> had died, he found <NAME> sleeping or lying on the cot and on seeing him he immediately started crying vigorously and making a show of the grief and shock they had received.
RatioOfTheDecision	The exact statement of the witness may be extracted thus :  "I could notice that <NAME> who was sleeping or  lying on the cot in the said room on seeing me entering the room immediately started crying vigorously giving jerks to his body and making show of the grief and the shock he had received.
Precedent	Ultimately I asked him as to what had happened to <NAME> when he told me that since 11th it was the day of his marriage with <NAME>, he and <NAME> were in joyest mood.
Precedent	According to him they went to bed by about 12 midnight and he had a sexual act with <NAME> in such a manner which they never had enjoyed before.
Precedent	Ultimately according to him when they completely felt tired and exhausted both of them fell asleep.
Precedent	According to him by about 5.30 a.m. when he got up and after visiting the urinal, when returned to the room he found that <NAME> had not got up as usual since according to him, she used to wake up at the same time he used to wake up and so he went near <NAME> and called her out when he found her dead."
Precedent	It is rather strange that while the witness took whatever his daughter told him at its face value without making any further  enquiry, he immediately jumped to the conclusion that the grief and tears in the eyes of his son- in-law were fake and that he was merely shedding crocodile tears.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is nothing on the record nor in the evidence to show any circumstance which may have led the witness to arrive at this conclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, if the conduct of the appellant, as described by the witness, is seen from a dispassionate angle, it was quite spontaneous and natural because by the time the witness reached Pune the postmortem had been done and the death of <NAME> had come to light long before his arrival.
RatioOfTheDecision	There was no reason for the witness to have presumed at that time that <NAME> must have committed the murder of the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	There were no materials or data before him which could have led him to this inference.
RatioOfTheDecision	This clearly shows one important fact, viz., that the witness was extremely prejudiced against <NAME> and if one sees anything-even the truth-with a pale glass everything would appear to him to be pale.
RatioOfTheDecision	The second  part of the statement made by the witness regarding having sexual intercourse near about midnight seems to us to be inherently improbable.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, educated or advanced one may be, it is against our precious cultural heritage for a person to utter such things in a most frank and rudimentary fashion to his <NAME>-in-law.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are clearly of the opinion that the story of having a sexual act, etc., was a pure figment of the imagination of the witness and this, therefore, goes a long way off to detract from the truth of the testimony of this witness.
RatioOfTheDecision	Furthermore, at page 175 the witness admits that during the life time of <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> told him about the receipt of the letters from <NAME> but they never referred to the nature or the contents of the letters.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>s is a correct statement because both <NAME> and <NAME> had been requested by <NAME> not to disclose to her parents the state of affairs or the tortures which she was suffering and perhaps they kept the sanctity of oath given to them by the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> s is an additional circumstance to show that even when <NAME> visited <NAME> for the last time she might tell something to her own sister <NAME> or to <NAME> but she would never dare to disclose all the details and put all the cards on the table before her parents-a step which she deliberately desisted from coming into existence.
RatioOfTheDecision	We can understand the evidence of the witness that <NAME> was worried, distressed and depressed.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sometimes out of natural love and affection parents make a mountain of a mole hill and this is what seems to have happened in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Great reliance was placed by the Additional Solicitor General, on behalf of the respondent, on the relevance of the statements of PWs 2, 3, 6, and 20.
RatioOfTheDecision	He attempted to use their statements for twin purposes-firstly, as primary evidence of what the witnesses saw with their own eyes and felt the mental agony and the distress through which the deceased was passing.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly, he relied on the statements made by the deceased (<NAME>) to these witnesses about the tre atment meted out to her by her <NAME> during her stay at Pune and furnishes a clear motive for the accused to murder her.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards the first circumstance, there can be no doubt that the said evidence of the witnesses would undoubtedly be admissible as revealing the state of mind of the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	This would be primary evidence in the case and, therefore, there cannot be any doubt about the relevancy of the statement of the witnesses in regard to this aspect of the matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	As to what probative value we should attach to such statements would depend on a proper application of the context and evidence of each of the witnesses, As regards the second aspect-which is in respect of what the deceased told the witnesses-it would only be admissible under s. 32 of the Evidence Act as relating to the circumstances that led to the death of the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the law discussed above and the propositions and the conclusions we have reached, there cannot be any doubt that these statements would fall in the second par t of s.32 of the Evidence Act relating directly to the transaction resulting in the death of <NAME>, and would be admissible.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before, however, examining this aspect of the question we might at the outset state that the character, conduct and the temperament of <NAME>, as disclosed or evinced by the admitted letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30,32 and 33), which demonstrate that it is most unlikely, if not impossible, for <NAME> to have related in detail the facts which the aforesaid witnesses deposed.
RatioOfTheDecision	If this conclusion is correct, then no reliance can be placed on this part of the statement of the aforesaid witnesses.
RulingByLowerCourt	We now proceed to discuss the evidence of PWs 3,4, 5, 6 and   20.
RulingByLowerCourt	As we have discussed the evidence of PW 2, <NAME> of <NAME>, it will be more appropriate to discuss now the evidence of PW-20 (<NAME>'s mother) from whom most of the matters spoken to by PW-2 were derived.
RulingByLowerCourt	Her evidence appears at page 305 of part I of the Paper Book.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is not necessary for us to go into those details which have already been deposed to  by PW-2.
RulingByLowerCourt	The most relevant part of her evidence is about the visit of <NAME> to Beed on 2.4.82.
Fact	She states that during this visit she found <NAME> cheerful and happy and she did not complain of anything during her stay for 8- 10 days.
Precedent	In answer to a question-whether she enquired from <NAME> or had any talk with her during that period-she stated <NAME> told her that her <NAME> was not taking any interest in her and used to leave the house early in the morning and return late at night on the excuse that he was busy with his factory work.
Precedent	It may be stated here that the accused had a chemical factory where he used to work from morning till late at night.
Precedent	The witness further deposed that <NAME> informed her that there was no charm left for her at the house of her <NAME>.
Precedent	These facts however run counter to her first statement where she stated that <NAME> was quite happy and cheerful as expected of a newly married girl.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even so, whatever <NAME> had said does not appear to be of any consequence because she (the witness)  herself admits that she did not take it seriously and told <NAME> that since she had entered a new family it might take some time for her to acclimatise herself with the new surroundings.
RatioOfTheDecision	She also warned <NAME> against attaching much importance to such matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thereafter she goes on to state that near about the 11th or 12th of April 1982 she (<NAME>) alongwith her <NAME> left for Pune to offer condolences on the death of the grand-<NAME> of the appellant.
Fact	She then proceeds to state that during their second visit to Pune on the 11th or 12th of May 1982 she stayed with her brother, <NAME> and that while she was there <NAME> hugged at her neck and having lost her control, started weeping profusely.
Fact	She further states that <NAME> requested her to take her to Beed as it was not possible for her to stay in her marital house where she was not only bored but was extremely afraid and scared.
Fact	On the next day she (<NAME>) met the mother of the appellant and told her plainly that she found <NAME> extremely perturbed, uneas y and scared and that she was experiencing tremendous pressure and restrictions from her <NAME>.
Fact	But the mother of the appellant convinced her that there was nothing to worry about, and everything will be alright.
Fact	The witness then narrated the fact to her <NAME> and requested him to take <NAME> with them to <NAME>.
Fact	<ORG> then sought the permission of Birdichand to take <NAME> to.
Fact	<NAME> but he told him that as some guests were to visit him, he (<ORG>) can send somebody after 4-5 days to take <NAME> to <NAME>.
Precedent	It may be mentioned here that the details about the sufferings and the mental condition of <NAME> was not mentioned by this witness even to her <NAME> (<ORG>) as he does not say anything about this matter.
Precedent	Further, her statement is frightfully vague.
Precedent	As already indicated that the letters (Ex.
Precedent	30, 32, 33) clearly show that <NAME> never wanted to worry or bother her parents about her disturbed condition, it appears to be most unlikely that on the occasion of the death of her grandfather-in-law she would choose that  opportunity to narrate her tale of woe to her mother.
RatioOfTheDecision	This appears to us to be a clear embellishment introduced by the prosecution to give a sentimental colour to the evidence of this witness.
Fact	Ultimately, on May 25, 1982 <NAME> brought <NAME> to Beed and this time she was accompanied by her cousin, <NAME>.
Fact	Here again, she states that on her arrival she found <NAME> extremely disturbed and under tension of fear and <NAME> was prepared to make a clean breast of all her troubles.
Fact	However, as <NAME> was there and did not give any opportunity to <NAME> to meet her mother alone, she (<NAME>) was sent out on some pretext or the other.
Fact	Thereafter, <NAME> told her mother that she was receiving a very shabby treatment from her <NAME> and while narrating her miserable plight she told her about two important incidents which had greatly upset her-(1) that she happened to come across a love letter written by PW 37, <NAME> to her <NAME> which showed that the appellant was carrying on illicit relations with PW 37, (2) t hat on one occasion the appellant told <NAME> that he was tired of his life and did not want to live any more and, therefore-wanted to commit suicide.
Fact	Despite <NAME>'s enquiries as to why he wanted to commit suicide, he did not give any reason.
Fact	She then informed her mother when this talk was going on, she (<NAME>) herself volunteered to commit suicide.
Fact	Thereafter, <NAME> put forth a proposal under which both of them were to commit suicide and they decided to write notes showing that they were committing suicide.
Fact	On hearing this plan from <NAME>, <NAME> told him that she was not inclined to commit suicide as she had not lost all hope of life and that she had expressed her desire to commit suicide only because he had said that he would do so.
RulingByLowerCourt	PW 20 would have us believe that while in one breath she agreed to the suicide pact yet the next moment she made a complete volte face.
RulingByLowerCourt	This is hard to believe having regard to the nature of the temperament of <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	The two statements said have been made by <NAME> to her moth er appear to be contradictory and irreconcilable and smack of concoction.
Argument	According to <NAME>, <NAME> then prepared two notes one addressed to his <NAME> and another to his <NAME>-in-law and asked <NAME> to do the same but she refused to do anything of the sort.
Argument	The witness admitted that she was not told as to what had happened to the notes written by the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	All this story of a suicidal pact seems to us nothing but a fairy tale.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no mention nor even a hint in the letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32, 33) written by <NAME> about the aforesaid suicidal pact and the story narrated by the witness before the trial court, nor was the note produced in the court.
RatioOfTheDecision	This appears to us to be a make-believe story and was introduced to castigate the appellant for his shabby treatment towards <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another intrinsic circumstance to show the untruth of this statement is that although <ORG> was apprised of these facts yet he never mentioned them to <NAME> particularly when he was insisting that <NAME> should be sent back t o Pune for attending the betrothal ceremony of his daughter <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, if this fact, which is of very great importance so far as the lives of both the <NAME> and the wife are concerned, would have been there, the first thing which PW 2 would have done is to tell <NAME> that matters had reached such a stage as to leave no doubt that her daughter was in an instant fear of death and it was impossible for him to allow his daughter to go to Pune where <NAME> was bent on forcing her to commit suicide or even murder her, more particularly because <ORG> admits in her evidence that as all the things she had learnt from <NAME> were serious, she had informed her <NAME> about the same who agreed with her.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from this grave incident, the witness deposed to another equally important matter, viz., that on the Shila Septami day, the appellant rang up his mother to send <NAME> alongwith <NAME> to a hotel (<ORG>), as has been deposed to by other witnesses) because he wanted to give a party to his friends.
Fact	As  <NAME> was not present in the house, <NAME>'s mother-in-law sent her alone, in a rickshaw to the hotel.
Fact	On reaching the hotel she did not find any other person except a girl who was introduced by her <NAME> as <NAME>.
Fact	The most critical part of the incident is that the appellant is alleged to have informed <NAME> that she should take lessons from <NAME> as to how she should behave with him and also told her that <NAME> knew everything about him and he was completely in her hands.
Fact	Subsequently the appellant went away and <NAME> told her that the appellant was a short-tempered man and she should talk to him only if and when he wanted to talk to her.
Fact	She (<NAME>) also told <NAME> that the appellant was completely under her command and she was getting every bit of information about the incidents happening between the <NAME> and the wife.
Fact	Finally, she was apprised of the fact by <NAME> that she and <NAME> were in love with each other.
Fact	<NAME> is said to have retorted and protested to <NAME> by saying that she  was not prepared to take any lessons from her regarding her behaviour towards her <NAME> as she (<NAME>) was his wedded wife while <NAME> was only a friend.
Fact	<NAME> also told her mother that these facts were narrated by her to the appellant and accused No.
Fact	2.
Fact	As a result of this incident, <NAME> became a little erratic which attracted double cruelty towards her by her <NAME> and made her extremely scared of her life and in view of this development she requested her mother not to send her back to the house of the accused.
Fact	One point of importance which might be noticed here and which shows that whatever be the relations with her <NAME> and <NAME>, the picture presented by the witness is not totally correct because if such a point of no return had already been reached, there was absolutely no question of Birdichand and sending for the appellant and arranging a trip to Ooty, Mysore and other place nor would have <NAME> agreed to go to these places.
Fact	The witness further stated that as soon as <NAME> came to know that  <NAME> had come to take her away she was shocked and continuously kept saying that she was extremely afraid of going to her <NAME>'s house and that she should not be sent back.
RatioOfTheDecision	The behavioral attitude of <NAME> depicted by the witness seems to us to be absolutely contradictory to and not at all in consonance with her temperament, frame of mind, psychological approach to things and innate habits.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is why no reference had been made even directly or indirectly in any of the letters written by <NAME>, and she had expressly requested both <NAME> and <NAME> not to disclose anything to her parents lest they may get worried and.
Precedent	distressed on her account.
Precedent	In other words, <NAME> was a woman who despite her troubles and tribulations, sufferings and travails, anxiety and anguish would never have thought of narrating her woeful story to her parents and thereby give an unexpected shock to them.
Precedent	This feeling is mentioned in the clearest possible terms in the letters (Exhs.
Precedent	30, 32, 33) which we have already discussed.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no reference at all in any of the letters regarding suicidal pact or the illicit relationship of her <NAME> with <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another important fact which <ORG> has missed is that even according to the statement of this witness, the appellant had asked his mother to send <NAME> along with <NAME> to the hotel and at that time he could not have been aware that <NAME> would not be available.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, if he had an evil intention of insulting or injuring the feelings of <NAME> by keeping <NAME> there he would never have asked his mother to send <NAME> also because then the matter was likely to be made public.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is another inherent improbability which makes the whole story difficult to believe.
RatioOfTheDecision	Despite these serious developments both <ORG> and 20 tried to convince <NAME> to accept the assurances given by <NAME> that no harm would come to her and if anything might happen they will take proper care.
RatioOfTheDecision	We find if impossible to believe that the parents who had so much love and affection for their daugh ter would, after knowing the circumstances, still try to take the side of <NAME> and persuade her daughter to go to Pune.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> (PW 2) should have told <NAME> point-blank that he would not send <NAME> in view of the serious incidents that had happened, viz., the suicidal pact, the cruel treatment of the appellant towards <NAME>, the constant fear of death which <NAME> was apprehending, the illicit relationship between the appellant and <NAME>, and the strong resistance of his daughter who was not prepared to go Pune at any cost and was weeping and wailing all the time.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, knowingly and deliberately they seem to have thrown their beloved daughter into a well of death.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact that <NAME>'s parents tried to console her and believed the assurance of <NAME> knowing full well the history of the case shows that any statement made by <NAME> to her parents was not of such great consequence as to harden their attitude.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is yet another intrinsic circumstance <NAME> to which negatives the  story of suicidal pact and the invitation to come to <ORG> and the manner in which she was insulted in the presence of <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no doubt that relations between the appellant and <NAME> were extremely strained, may-be due to his friendship with <NAME>, she may not have felt happy in her marital home as she has clearly expressed in her letters but she did not disclose anything of such great consequence which would have shocked the parents and led them to resist her going to Pune at any cost.
RatioOfTheDecision	This makes the version given by PWs 2 and 20 unworthy of credence.
RatioOfTheDecision	We now proceed to take up the evidence of PW-6, <NAME>, the sister of <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The statement of this witness is more or less a carbon copy of the evidence of PW-20 which has been discussed above and, therefore, it is not necessary to consider her evidence in all its details.
RulingByLowerCourt	So far as the first visit is concerned, she fully supports her mother that <NAME> was very happy as was expected of a newly married girl.
RulingByLowerCourt	When <NAME> came to Beed around 2nd  April 1982 she stayed there for 8-10 days and during that period the witness noticed that she was somewhat dissatisfied and complained that her <NAME> used to return late at night.
RulingByLowerCourt	She also complained against the callous attitude of the other members of her <NAME>'s family.
RulingByLowerCourt	She also introduced the story of <NAME> and corroborated what <ORG>0 had said which we have discussed above.
RulingByLowerCourt	She also refers to the said suicidal pact and then to the fact that <NAME> had come to take away <NAME> to Pune so that she may be able to attend the betrothal ceremony of <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	Then she deposes to an incident which appears to be wholly improbable.
RulingByLowerCourt	According to her, on the 3rd of June, 1982, <ORG> invited his two friends, <NAME> and <NAME>, for lunch at which <NAME> was also present, and told them that <NAME> was not prepared to go to Pune as she was afraid to go there but <NAME>, alongwith his two friends, assured him that nothing would happen.
RulingByLowerCourt	We do not think that in the course of things P-2 would be so foolish as  to let the secret matters of the house known to others than the parties concerned.
Fact	Thereafter the witness proves the letters (Exhs.
Fact	30 and 32).
Fact	She stated one important statement to the effect that on some occasions <NAME> had a talk with her mother in her presence.
Fact	Although <NAME> had requested <NAME> not to disclose anything to her parents yet everything was made known to them, During cross-examination the witness was asked-how as it that <NAME> was narrating these talks when the witness had been asked not to disclose the same to her parents, which she explained away by saying that she did not ask <NAME> why she was disclosing these things to her mother.
Precedent	No satisfactory answer to this question seems to have been given by her.
Precedent	At another place, the witness states thus :  "I did not tell all these informations I received from <NAME> to any body.
Precedent	Nor anybody enquired from me till my statement was recorded by the Police."
Precedent	Her evidence, therefore, taken as a whole is subject to the same infirmity as that of PW 20 an d must suffer the same fate.
Precedent	PW-3, <NAME> (who was addressed as `<NAME>' in <NAME>'s letter (Ex.
Precedent	33), states that on the first occasion when <NAME> came home she was quite happy but during her second visit to Beed in the month of April, 1982 she did not find her so and <NAME> complained that her <NAME> was avoiding her to have a talk with her on one excuse or another.
Precedent	<NAME> also informed the witness that the appellant had a girl- friend by name <NAME> and the witness says that she tried to console <NAME> by saying that since her <NAME> was a Chemical Engineer he may have lot of friends.
Precedent	While referring to Exh.
Fact	33 (letter written to her by <NAME>) she stated that the only complaint made in that letter was that her <NAME> was not talking to her properly.
Fact	She then deposed to an incident which happened when on her way to Bombay when the witness stayed at Pune for some time.
Fact	She states that she had a talk with <NAME> for about half-an-hour when she narrated the story of the suicidal pact.
Fact	She also stated that she was  extremely afraid of the situation and almost broke down in tears and wept.
RatioOfTheDecision	The most important fact which may be noted in her evidence is a clear pointer to the frame of mind and the psychotic nature of <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	At page 212 of Part I of the Paperbook while narrating the relationship of her <NAME> with <NAME> she says that the appellant lost his temper and thereupon she spoke the following words to him :  ,`I am not going to spare this, I will not allow this, his bad relations even though a blot may come to our family and I have decided likewise."
RatioOfTheDecision	These significant and pregnant words clearly show that <NAME> was so much bored and disgusted with her life that she entertained a spirit of revenge and told the witness that she was not going to tolerate this even though a blot may come to the family and that she had decided likewise.
RatioOfTheDecision	This statement undoubtedly contains a clear hint that she had almost made up her mind to end her life, come what may and thereby put to trouble her <NAME> and his family members as bei ng suspect after her death.
RatioOfTheDecision	This appears to be a culmination of a feeling which she had expressed in one of her letters to <NAME> in the following words:  "Till I could control (myself), well and good.
RatioOfTheDecision	When it becomes impossible, some other way will have to be evolved.
RatioOfTheDecision	Let us see what happens.
Precedent	All right."
Precedent	Similarly, in her letter (Ex.
Precedent	33) to this witness she gives a concealed hint "But till that day it is not certain that I will be alive."
Precedent	Thus the feelings of death and despair which she orally expressed to the witness at Pune seems to have been fulfilled when on the morning of 12th June 1982 she was found dead.
RatioOfTheDecision	The evidence of PW 4, <NAME>, is not that important.
RatioOfTheDecision	He merely states that in the last week of May 1982, <NAME> had called him and told him that <NAME> was being ill-treated by her <NAME> and therefore she was not prepared to go to her marital home.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> also informed him about the suicidal pact affair.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the witness was in a hurry to go to Hyderabad he counselled <NAME> not to take any fi nal decision in a hurry and that <NAME> should not be sent to Pune with <NAME> until his return when a decision may be taken.
RatioOfTheDecision	On return from Hyderabed he learnt that <NAME> had already taken <NAME> to Pune and thereafter he left for Pune.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, if the matter was so grave and serious that a person like PW 4, who was a relation of the appellant rather than that of <ORG>, had advised him not to make haste and take a final decision but wait until his return yet <ORG> seems to have spurned his advice and sent <NAME> to Pune.
RatioOfTheDecision	This shows that the matter was not really of such great importance or urgency as to take the drastic step of making a blunt refusal to Birdihchand about <NAME>'s not going to Pune.
RatioOfTheDecision	This also shows that the story of suicidal pact and other things had been introduced in order to give a colour or orientation to the prosecution story.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another fact to which this witness deposes in the narration by the appellant about his having sexual act with his wife.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already disbelieved this story a s being hopelessly improbable and against the cultural heritage of our country or of our nature and habits.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is the only purpose for which this witness was examined and his evidence does not advance the matter any further.
RatioOfTheDecision	PW-5, <NAME>, has also been examined to boost up the story narrated by <NAME> other witnesses.
RatioOfTheDecision	She was not at all connected with the family of <NAME> but is alleged to be a friend of <NAME> and she says that she found <NAME> completely disheartened and morose and she started weeping and crying while narrating her said story.
RatioOfTheDecision	The witness goes on to state that <NAME> was so much terrified of the appellant that she was afraid of her life at his hands.
RatioOfTheDecision	No.
RatioOfTheDecision	witness has gone to the extent of saying that there was any immediate danger to <NAME>'s life nor did <NAME> say so to PWs 2, 6 and 20.
RatioOfTheDecision	This witness appears to us to be more loyal than the king.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even assuming that <NAME> was a friend of PW 6 but she never wrote to her any letter indicating anything of the sort.
RatioOfTheDecision	For these reasons we are  not satisfied that this witness is worthy of credence.
RatioOfTheDecision	A close and careful scrutiny of the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses clearly and conspicuously reveals a story which is quite, different from the one spelt out from the letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and 33).
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, the letters have a different tale to tell particularly in respect of the following matters:-  (1) There is absolutely no reference to suicidal pact or the circumstances leading to the same, (2) there is no reference even to <NAME> and her illicit relations with the appellant, (3) there is no mention of the fact that the deceased was not at all willing to go to Pune and that she was sent by force, (4) the complaints made in the letters are confined to ill-treatment, loneliness, neglect and anger of the <NAME> but no apprehension has been expressed in any of the letters that the deceased expected imminent danger to her life from her <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	(5) In fact, in the letters she had asked her sister and friend not to disclose her sad plight to her paren ts but while narrating the facts to her parents she herself violated the said emotional promise which appears to us to be too good to be true and an after thought added to strengthen the prosecution case.
RatioOfTheDecision	(6) If there is anything inherent in the letters it is that because of her miserable existence and gross ill-treatment by her <NAME>, <NAME> might have herself decided to end her life rather than bother her parents.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are therefore unable to agree with <ORG> and the trial court that the witnesses discussed above are totally dependable so as to exclude the possibility of suicide and that the only irresistible inference that can be drawn from their evidence is that it was the appellant who had murdered the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	Putting all these pieces together a general picture of the whole episode that emerges is that there is a reasonable possibility of <NAME> having made up her mind to end her life, either due to frustration or desperation or to take a revenge on her <NAME> for shattering her dream and il l- treating her day-to-day.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from the spirit of revenge which may have been working in the mind of <NAME>, it seems to us that what may have happened is that the sum total and the cumulative effect of the circumstances may have instilled in her an aggressive impulse endangered by frustration of which there is ample evidence both in her letters and her subsequent conduct.
Precedent	In Encyclopedia of Crime and Justice (Vol.
Precedent	4) by <NAME> the author mentions thus :  "Other psychologically oriented theories ave viewed suicide as a means of handling aggressive impulses engendered by frustration."
Precedent	Another inference that follows from the evidence of the witness discussed is that the constant fact of wailing and weeping is one of the important symptoms of an intention to commit suicide as mentioned by <NAME> and <NAME> in their book "Social Origins of Depression" thus:-  "1.
Precedent	Symptom data Depressed mood-  140  1.
Precedent	Crying  2. feeling miserable/looking miserable, unable to smile or laugh  3. feelin gs of hopelessness about the future  4. suicidal thoughts  5. suicidal attempts Fears/anxiety/worry  15. psychosomatic accompaniments  16. tenseness/anxiety  17. specific worry  18. panic attacks  19. phobias Thinking  20. feelings of self-depreciation/nihilistic delusions  21. delusions or ideas of reference  22. delusions of persecution/jealousy  23. delusions of grandeur  24. delusions of control/influence  25. other delusions e. g. hypochondriacal worry  26. auditory hallucinations  27. visual hallucinations."
RatioOfTheDecision	Most of these symptoms appear to have been proved as existing in <NAME> both from her letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and  33) and from the evidence discussed.
RatioOfTheDecision	We might hasten to observe here that in cases of women of a sensitive and sentimental nature it has usually been observed that if they are tired of their life due to the action of their kith and kin, they become so desperate that they develop a spirit of revenge and try to destroy those who had made their lives worthless and under this strong spell of  revenge sometimes they can go to the extreme limit of committing suicide with a feeling that the subject who is the root cause of their malady is also destroyed.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is what may have happened in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having found her dreams shattered to pieces <NAME> tried first to do her best for a compromise but the constant ill-treatment and callous attitude of her <NAME> may have driven her to take revenge by killing herself so that she brings ruination and destruction to the family which was responsible for bringing about her death.
RatioOfTheDecision	We might extract what <NAME> in his book 'Death, Society, and Human Experience' has to say:  "Revenge fantasies and their association with suicide are well known to people who give ear to those in emotional distress."
RatioOfTheDecision	After a careful consideration and discussion of the evidence we reach the following conclusions on point No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1:  1) that soon after the marriage the relations between <NAME> and her <NAME> became extremely strained and went to the extent that no point of r eturn had been almost reached,  2) that it has been proved to some extent that the appellant had some sort of intimacy with <NAME> which embittered the relationship between <NAME> and him,  3) That the story given out by PW 2 and supported by PW 20 that when they reached Pune after the death of <NAME> they found appellant's weeping and wailing out of grief as this was merely a pretext for shedding of crocodile tears, cannot be believed,  4) that the story of suicidal pact and the allegation that appellant's illicit relations with <NAME> developed to such an extreme that he was so much infatuated with <NAME> as to form the bedrock of the motive of the murder of <NAME>, has not been clearly proved,  5) the statement of PW 2 that the appellant had told him that during the night on 11th June 1982 he had sexual act with the deceased is too good to be true and is not believable as it is inherently improbable,  6) that despite the evidence of PWs 2, 3, 6 and 20 if has not been proved to our satisfaction that the matter  had assumed such extreme proportions that <NAME> refused to go to Pune with her <NAME>-in-law (<NAME>) at any cost and yet she was driven by use of compulsion and persuasion to accompany him,   7) that the combined reading and effect of the letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and 33) and the evidence of PWs 2, 3, 4, 6 and 20 clearly reveal that the signs and symptoms resulting from the dirty atmosphere and the hostile surroundings in which <NAME> was placed is a pointer to the fact that there was a reasonable possibility of her having committed suicide and the prosecution has not been able to exclude or eliminate this possibility beyond reasonable doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	We must hasten to add that we do not suggest that this was not a case of murder at all but would only go to the extent of holding that at least the possibility of suicide as alleged by the defence may be there and cannot be said to be illusory.
RatioOfTheDecision	8) That a good part of the evidence discussed above, is undoubtedly admissible as held by us but its probative value seems to  be precious little in view of the several improbabilities pointed out by us while discussing the evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	We might mention here that we had to reappreciate the evidence of the witnesses and the circumstances taking into account the psychological aspect of suicide as found in the psychotic nature and character of <NAME> because these are important facts which <ORG> completely overlocked.
RatioOfTheDecision	It seems to us that <ORG> while appreciating the evidence was greatly influenced by the fact that the evidence furnished by the contents of the letters were not admissible in evidence which, as we have shown, is a wrong view of law, We now come to the second limb- perhaps one of the most important limbs of the prosecution case viz., the circumstance that the appellant was last seen with the deceased before her death.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apparently, if proved, this appears to be a conclusive evidence against the appellant but here also <ORG> has completely ignored certain essential details which cast considerable doubt  on the evidence led by the prosecution on this point.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question of the appellant having been last seen with the deceased may be divided into three different stages:  1) The arrival of <NAME> and her children alongwith <NAME> at <NAME> apartments, followed by the arrival of the appellant and his entry into his bedroom where <NAME> was talking to <NAME>,  2) the calling of PW 29 by A-2 followed by the appellant and his brother's going out on a scooter to get Dr. <NAME> and thereafter Dr. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	3) Sending for <NAME> (PW 30) and the conversation between the appellant, <NAME> and others as a result of which the matter was reported to the police.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although the aforesaid three stages of this circumstance cannot technically be called to mean that the accused was last seen with the deceased but the three parts combined with the first circumstance might constitute a motive for the murder attributed to the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	From a perusal of the judgment of <ORG> on these points, it appears that t he <ORG> has made a computerise and mathematical approach to the problem in fixing the exact time of the various events which cannot be correct as would appear from the evidence of the witnesses, including Dr <NAME> (PW 33) .
RatioOfTheDecision	The evidence of PW 7, the motor rickshaw driver shows that on the night of the 11th of June he had brought the deceased alongwith <NAME> and others and dropped them near the Takshila apartments at about 11.00 p.m.
RatioOfTheDecision	The witness was cross-examined on several points but we shall accept finding of the <ORG> on the fact that on the 11th of June 1982 the witness had dropped the persons, mentioned above, at about 11.00 p.m.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rest of the evidence is not germane for the purpose of this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may, however, be mentioned that one should always give some room for a difference of a few minutes in the time that a layman-like PW 7 would say.
RatioOfTheDecision	We cannot assume that when the witness stated that he had dropped <NAME> and others at 11.00 p.m., it was exactly 11.00 p.m.--it would have been  10-15 minutes this way or that way.
RatioOfTheDecision	His evidence is only material to show the approximate time when <NAME> returned to the apartments.
RatioOfTheDecision	The next witness on this point is PW-28, <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This witness corroborates PW-7 and stated he had heard the sound of a rickshaw near the apartments when the wife of A- 2, <NAME> and 3 children entered the apartments and went to their rooms.
RatioOfTheDecision	He further says that after about 15 minutes he saw the appellant coming on a scooter and while he was parking his scooter the witness asked him why did he come so late to which he replied that he was busy in some meeting.
RatioOfTheDecision	This would show that the appellant must have arrived at the apartments near about 11.30 or 11.45 p.m.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is very difficult to fix the exact time because the witness himself says that he had given the timings approximately.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> was, therefore, not justified in fixing the time of arrival of <NAME> and party or the appellant with almost mathematical precision for that would be a most unrealistic approach.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG>  Court seems to have speculated that <NAME> must have died at 12.00 a.m., that is to say, within 15-20 minutes of the arrival of the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, however, impossible for us to determine the exact time as to when <NAME> died because even Dr. <NAME> says in his evidence that the time of death of the deceased was between 18 to 36 hours which takes us to even beyond past 12 in the night.
RatioOfTheDecision	At any rate, this much is certain that <NAME> must have died round about to 2.00 a.m. because when Dr. <NAME> arrived at 2.45 a.m. he found her dead and he had also stated that rigor mortis had started setting in, It is.
RatioOfTheDecision	therefore, difficult to fix the exact time as if every witness had a watch which gave correct and exact time.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such an inference is not at all called for.
RatioOfTheDecision	The third stage of this matter is that while the witness was sleeping he heared the sound of the starting of a scooter and got up from his bed and saw appellant and A-2 going away.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, he found 7-8 persons coming and going on their scooters.
RatioOfTheDecision	The High  Court seems to suggest that this must have happened by about 1.30 p.m.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even so, this does not prove that <NAME> have died at midnight.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the witness had been sleeping and was only aroused by the sound of scooters, it would be difficult to fix the exact time when he saw the appellant and A-2 going out on their scooters.
RatioOfTheDecision	His evidence, therefore, was rightly relied upon by <ORG> in proving the facts stated by him.
RatioOfTheDecision	PW-29, <NAME>, who was serving as a watchman at the Takshila apartments says that near about the midnight he was called by <NAME>, A-2 and on hearing the shouts he went to flat No.
RatioOfTheDecision	5.
RatioOfTheDecision	He further says that A-2 directed him to unbolt or unchain the door but the door was not found closed from inside and hence A-2 went out and returned after some time.
Fact	While the witness was standing at the door A-2 returned and after his return the witness also came back to his house and went to sleep.
Fact	Perhaps the witness was referring to the incident when A-1 and A-2 had gone on scooter to fetch Dr. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	During cross-examination the witness admitted that he did not possess any watch and gave the timings only approximately.
RatioOfTheDecision	We shall accept his evidence in toto but that leads us nowhere.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is all the evidence so far as the first stage of the case is concerned and, in all probability, it does not at all prove that A-1 had murdered the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, the circumstances proved by the three witness are not inconsistent with the defence plea that soon after entering the room <NAME> may have committed suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	Part II of this circumstance relates to the coming of Dr. <NAME> and then Dr. <NAME> on the scene of occurrence and we accept their evidence in toto.
RatioOfTheDecision	Dr. <NAME> was a family doctor of the appellant's family and it was quite natural to send for him when the appellant suspected that his wife was dead.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although Dr. <NAME> (PW 24) was a family doctor of the appellant's family yet he did not try to support the defence case and was frank enough to tell the accused and those who were present there that  it was not possible for him to ascertain the cause of death which could only be done by a postmortem.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, he indirectly suggested that <NAME>'s death was an unnatural one, and in order to get a second opinion he advised that Dr. <NAME> (PW 25) may also be summoned.
RatioOfTheDecision	Accordingly, Dr. <NAME> was called and he endorsed the opinion of Dr. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a conduct on the part of the appellant or the persons belonging to his family is wholly inconsistent with the allegation of the prosecution that the appellant had murdered the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> seems to have made one important comment in that why Dr. <NAME> and Dr. <NAME> were called from some distance when Dr. <NAME>, who was a skin specialist and another Doctor who was a child expert, were living in the same building.
RatioOfTheDecision	This comment is neither here nor there.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is manifest that <NAME> was a respectable person of the town and when he found that his daughter-in-law had died he would naturally send for his family doctor rather then those who were n ot known to him.
RatioOfTheDecision	146  It appears that <NAME> was also summoned on telephone and when he came at the scene of occurrence he found A-2, <NAME> sitting on the floor of the room and <NAME> hugged him out of grief, and told him that <NAME> had died of shock and the Doctors were not prepared to give a death certificate.
RatioOfTheDecision	In order to understand the evidence of this witness it may be necessary to determine the sequence of events so for as <NAME> is concerned.
Fact	The witness has stated that while he was sleeping he was aroused from his sleep by a knock at the door by <NAME> (brother of appellant) at about 4.00 or 4.15 a.m. <NAME> told him that <NAME> had died and the doctors were not prepared to give any death certificate.
Fact	After having these talks the witness, alongwith <NAME>, proceeded to the apartments and remained there till 5.15. a.m. Then he returned to his house, took bath and at about 6.30 a.m. he received a telephone call from <NAME> for lodging a report with the police with t he request that the time of death should be given as 5.30 a.m. Consequently, he reached the police station near about 7.00 or 7.15 a.m. and lodged a report stating that <NAME> had died at 5.30 a.m.
RatioOfTheDecision	This witness appears to be of doubtful antecedents and, therefore, his evidence has to be taken with a grain of salt.
Fact	He admitted in his statement at p. 387 that some proceedings about evasion of octroi duty were pending against him in the <ORG>.
Fact	He also admitted that he was convicted and sentenced to 9 months R.I under the Food Adulteration Act in the year 1973.
Fact	Apart from this it appears that most of the statements which he made in the <ORG> against <NAME> and the other accused, were not made by him before the police.
RulingByLowerCourt	These statements were put to him and he denied the same but they have been proved by the Investigation Officer, PW 40 whose evidence appears at p. 521 of Part II of the printed paperbook.
RulingByLowerCourt	These belated statements made in the <ORG> may be summarised thus:  While in his statement before the court  the witness at p. 386 (para 19) states that the death of <NAME> was suspicious yet he made no such statement before the police on being confronted by the statement of PW 40.
RulingByLowerCourt	Another important point on which his statement does not appear to be true is that the dominent fact mentioned to him by <NAME> and others was that the doctors were not prepared to issue death certificate but he did not say so before the police.
RulingByLowerCourt	Similarly, he deposed in the court about the statement made to him by <NAME> that he would lose his prestige and therefore the body should be cremated before 7.00 a.m, but he advised him not to do so unless he has informed the police otherwise his whole family would be in trouble.
Precedent	Almost the entire part of his evidence in para 5 at p. 381 appears to be an afterthought, as PW 40 stated thus:  "I recorded the statement of PW 30 <NAME>.
Precedent	He did not state before me that death of <NAME> was suspicious.
Precedent	He did not state before me that Accused No.
Precedent	3 informed him that the Doctors were not prepare d to issue the death certificate.
Precedent	He did not state before me that the demand was made of the death certificate from the Doctors or the Doctors refused to give the same.
Precedent	During his statement this witness did not make the statements as per para No.
Precedent	5 excluding the portions from A to F of his examination-in-chief."
Precedent	The portions referred to as 'A to F' in para No.
Precedent	5 of examination-in-chief of <NAME> may be extracted thus:  "<NAME> then started telling me that <NAME> had died on account of shock and that-----he said that she died of heart attack------under any circumstance he wanted to cremate <NAME> before 7.O' clock------when he said that he would spend any amount but wanted to cremate her before 7.00 a.m."  This statement does not appear to be true for the following reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	(a) <NAME> knew full well that <NAME> was a police contact constable and as he was not prepared to persuade the doctors to give a death certificate, his attitude was hardly friendly as he was insisting that the matter should be report ed to the police.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, therefore, difficult to believe that <NAME> would take such a great risk in laying all his cards on the table knowing full well that the witness was not so friendly as he thought and therefore he might inform the police; thereby he would be in a way digging his own grave.
RatioOfTheDecision	(b) On a parity of reasoning it would have been most improbable on the part of the appellant, after having decided to report the matter to the police, to ask PW 30 to report the time of death as 5.30 a.m. knowing full well his attitude when he came to the apartments.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not at all understandable how the witness could have mentioned the time of <NAME>'s death as 5.30 a.m. or, at any rate, when her death was known to her <NAME> and when he himself having gone to the apartments near about 4.15 a.m. knew full well that <NAME> had died earlier and that Dr. <NAME> and Dr. <NAME> had certified the same and advised <NAME> to report the matter to the police.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the original Ex-120 (in Marathi language), it appears  that the time of death given by the witness is '<NAME>' which, according to <ORG> at p. 497, means 'The period of six ghatika before unrise, the dawn' i. e., about 2 hours 24 minutes before sunrise (one ghatika is equal to 24 minutes).
RatioOfTheDecision	This would take us to near about 3.00 a.m.
RatioOfTheDecision	Either there is some confusion in the translation of the word '<NAME>' or in the words '5.30 a.m.', as mentioned in the original Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	120.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, nothing much turns on this except that according to the witness <NAME> must have died around 3.00 a.m. which is consistent with the evidence of Dr. <NAME> that when he examined <NAME> at about 2.30 a.m. he found her dead and rigor mortis had already started setting in.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are not concerned here with the controversy whether the report was admissible under s. 154 or s. 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure but the fact remains that the policd did receive the information that the death took place at 5.30 a.m. <ORG> seems to have made a capital out of th is small incident and has not made a realistic approach to the problem faced by <NAME> and his family.
RatioOfTheDecision	Being a respectable man of the town, <NAME> did not want to act in a hurry lest his reputation may suffer and naturally required some time to reflect and consult his friends before taking any action.
RatioOfTheDecision	The allegation that A-3 told him to report the time of death as 5.30 a.m. is not at all proved but is based on the statement of <NAME>, before the police.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, the approach made by <ORG> to this aspect of the matter appears to be artificial and unrealistic as it failed to realise that the question of the time of death of the deceased as 5.30 a.m. could never have been given by the appellant or any other accused because they knew full well that the two doctors had examined the whole matter and given the time of death as being round about 1.30 a.m. Having known all these facts how could anyone ask <NAME> to give the time of death at the police station as 5.30 a.m.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, it will be difficult for us  to rely on the evidence of such a witness who had gone to the extent of making wrong statements and trying to appease both Birdichand and the prosecution, and, therefore, his evidence does not inspire any confidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The last part of the case on this point is the evidence of PWs 2 and 4, where the appellant is said to have told them that he had sexual intercourse with his wife near about 5.00 a.m. on the 12th June 1982.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from the inherent improbability in the statement of the appellant, there is one other circumstance which almost clinches the issue.
Fact	It appears that <NAME> (PW 20), Inspector-in-charge of the police station made a query from Dr. <NAME> which is extracted below:  Whether it can be said definitely or not as to whether sexual intercourse might have taken just prior to death ?"
Precedent	The above query was made in Ex.
Precedent	129 and the answer of the Doctor appears in Ex.
Precedent	187 which is extracted below:  "From clinical examination there was no positive evidence of having any recent sexual, intercourse j ust prior to death."
Precedent	This positive finding of the Doctor therefore knocks the bottom out of the case made out by the prosecution tion that the appellant had told PWs 2 and 4 about having sexual intercourse with his wife.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unfortunately, however, <ORG> instead of giving the benefit of this important circumstance to the accused has given the benefit to the prosecution which is yet another error in the approach made by <ORG> while assessing the prosecution evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having regard to the very short margin of time between the arrival of the appellant in his bed-room and the death of <NAME>, it seems to be well-nigh impossible to believe that he would try to have sexual intercourse with her.
RatioOfTheDecision	This circumstance, therefore, falsifies the evidence of PWs 2 and 4 on this point and shows the extent to which the witnesses could go to implicate the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	Finally, in view of the disturbed nature of the state of mind of Birdichand and the catastrophe faced by him and his family, it is difficult to bel ieve that the grief expressed and the tears shed by the appellant when <NAME> met him could be characterised as fake.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it is assumed that the accused did not commit the murder of the deceased then the weeping and wailing and expressing his grief to <NAME> would be quite natural and not fake.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are other minor details which have been considered by <ORG> but they do not appear to us to be very material.
Fact	Taking an overall picture on this part of the prosecution case the position seems to be as follows:  (1) if the accused wanted to give poison while <NAME> was wide awake, she would have put up stiffest possible resistance as any other person in her position would have done.
RulingByLowerCourt	Dr. <NAME> in his postmortem report has not found any mark of violence or resistance.
RulingByLowerCourt	Even if she was overpowered by the appellant she would have shouted and cried and attracted persons from the neighbouring flats which would have been a great risk having regard to the fact that some of the inmates of the house had come only a s hort-while before the appellant.
RulingByLowerCourt	(2) Another possibility which cannot be ruled out is that potassium cyanide may have been given to <NAME> in a glass of water, if she happened to ask for it.
RulingByLowerCourt	But if this was so, she being a chemist herself would have at once suspected some foul play and once her suspicion would have arisen it would be very difficult for the appellant to murder her.
RulingByLowerCourt	(3) The third possibility is that as <NAME> had returned pretty late to the flat she went to sleep even before the arrival of the appellant and then he must have tried to forcibly administer the poison by the process of mechanical suffocation, in which case alone the deceased could not have been in a position to offer any resistance.
RulingByLowerCourt	But this opinion of the Doctor has not been accepted by <ORG> which, after a very elaborate consideration and discussion of the evidence, the circumstances and the medical authorities, found that the opinion of the Doctor that <NAME> died by mechanical suffocation has not been proved or, at any  rate, it is not safe to rely on such evidence.
RulingByLowerCourt	In this connection, we might refer to the finding of fact arrived at by <ORG> on this point: "In view of the above position as is available from the evidence of Dr. <NAME> and from the observations made by the medical authorities it will not be possible to say that the existence of the dark red blood in the right ventricle exclusively points out the mechanical suffocation particularly when such phenomenon is available in cases of poisoning by potassium cyanide."
RulingByLowerCourt	(PB p. 147-48) "In view of this answer it will not be possible to say conclusively that this particular symptom of observation is exclusively available in case of mechanical suffocation.
RulingByLowerCourt	Thus we have discussed all the seven items on which Dr. <NAME> has relied for the purpose of giving an opinion that there was mechanical suffocation.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our view, therefore, those 7 findings would not constitute conclusive date for the purpose of holding that there was mechanical suffocation.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the 7 findin gs mentioned above can be available even in the case of cyanide poisoning we think that it would not be safe to rely upon these circumstances for recording an affirmative finding that there was mechanical suffocation.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the 7 findings mentioned above can be available even in the case of cyanide poisoning we think that it would not be safe to rely upon these circumstances for recording an affirmative finding that there was mechanical suffocation."
RatioOfTheDecision	(P.150-151) It is not necessary for us to repeat the circumstances relied upon by <ORG> because the finding of fact speaks for itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	152  This being the position, the possibility of mechanical suffocation is completely excluded.
Precedent	(4) The other possibility that may be thought of is that <NAME> died a natural death.
Precedent	This also is eliminated in view of the report of the Chemical Examiner as confirmed by the postmortem that the deceased had died as a result of administration of potassium cyanide.
Precedent	(5) The only other reasonable possibility that remains is that  as the deceased was fed up with the maltreatment by her <NAME>, in a combined spirit of revenge and hostility after entering the flat she herself took potassium cyanide and lay limp and lifeless.
Precedent	When the appellant entered the room he must have thought that as she was sleeping she need not be disturbed but when he found that there was no movement in the body after an hour so, his suspicion was roused and therefore he called his brother from adjacent flat to send for Dr. <NAME>.
Precedent	In these circumstances, it cannot be said that a reasonable possibility of the deceased having committed suicide, as alleged by the defence, can be safely ruled out or eliminated.
RatioOfTheDecision	From a review of the circumstances mentioned above, we are of the opinion that the circumstance of the appellant having been last seen with the deceased has not been proved conclusively so as to raise an irresistible inference that <NAME>'s death was a case of blatant homicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	This now brings us to an important chapter of the case on which great reliance a ppears to have been placed by Mr. <NAME> on behalf of the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unfortunately, however, the aspect relating to interpolations in the postmortem report has been completely glossed over by <ORG> which has not attached any importance to the infirmity appearing in the medical evidence in support of the said interpolations.
RatioOfTheDecision	Although the learned counsel for the appellant drew our attention to a number of interpolations in the postmortem report as also the report sent to the Chemical Examiner, we are impressed only with two infirmities which merit serious consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	To begin with, it has been pointed out that in the original postmortem notes which were sent to Dr. <NAME> (PW 33) for his opinion, there is a clear interpolation by which the words `can be a case of suicidal death' appear to have been scored out and Dr. <NAME> explained that since he had written the words `time since death' twice, therefore, the subsequent writing had been scored out by him.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the Doctor clearly a dmitted the scoring out of the subsequent portion and we have to examine whether the explanation given by him is correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	In order to decide this issue we have examined for ourselves the original postmortem notes (Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	128) where the writing has been admittedly scored out by Dr. <NAME>.
Precedent	The relevant column against which the scoring has been done is column.
Precedent	No.
Precedent	5 which runs thus:  "5.
Precedent	Substance of accompanying Report from Police officer or Magistrate, together with the date of death, if known.
Precedent	Supposed cause of death, or reason for examination."
Precedent	The last line indicates that the Doctor was to note two things-(1) the date of death, if known, and (2) the supposed cause of death.
RatioOfTheDecision	This document appears to have been written by PW 33 on 12.6.82 at 4.30 p.m.
RatioOfTheDecision	The relevant portion of the words written by the Doctor are `time since dealt' which were repeated as he states in his statement.
RatioOfTheDecision	After these words some other words have been admittedly scored out and his (PW 33) explanation was that since he had written `time s ince death' twice, the second line being a repetition was scored out.
RatioOfTheDecision	A bare look at Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	128 does not show that the explanation given by the Doctor is correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have ourselves examined the said words with the help of a magnifying glass and find that the scored words could not have been `time since death'.
RatioOfTheDecision	The only word common between the line scored out and the line left intact is `death'.
RatioOfTheDecision	To us, the scored out words seem to be `can be a case of suicidal death'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Dr <NAME> however stuck to his original stand which is not supported by his own writing in the document itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	It seems' to us that at the first flush when he wrote the postmortem notes it appeared to him that no abnormality was detected and that it appears to be a case of suicide rather than that of homicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	This, therefore, if the strongest possible circumstance to make the defence highly probable, if not certain.
RatioOfTheDecision	Furthermore, the <ORG>'s explanation that the scored words were "time since death", according to the said explanation, the scored  words ore only three whereas the portion scored out contains as many as seven words.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence the explanation of the Doctor is not borne out from the document.
Precedent	It is true that the Doctor reserved his opinion until the chemical examiner's report but that does not answer the question because in column No.5 of postmortem note Dr. <NAME> has clearly written "can be a case of suicidal death" which indicates a that in the absence of the report of the chemical examiner, he was of the opinion that it could have been a case of suicide.
Precedent	In his evidence, <ORG> stated that in Exh.
Precedent	128 in column No.
Precedent	5 the contents scored out read `time since death' and since it was repeated in the next line, he scored the words in the second line.
RatioOfTheDecision	Despite persistent cross-examination the Doctor appears to have stuck to his stand.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot, therefore, be gainsaid that this matter was of vital importance and we expected <ORG> to have given serious attention to this aspect which goes in favour of the accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another interpolatio n pointed out by the learned counsel is regarding position of tongue as mentioned in Exh.
RatioOfTheDecision	134.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the original while filling up the said column the Doctor appears to have scored out something; the filled up entry appears thus-`mouth is closed with tip (something scored out) seen caught between the teeth'.
RatioOfTheDecision	But in the carbon copy of the report which was sent to <ORG> (Exh.
RatioOfTheDecision	132) he has added `caught between the teeth' in ink but in the original there is something else.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is fortified by the fact that the copy of the report actually sent to the chemical examiner does not contain any interpolation against the said column where the filled up entry reads `Inside mouth'.
RatioOfTheDecision	The combined effect of these circumstances show that Dr. <NAME> (PW33) tried to introduce some additional facts regarding the position of the tongue.
RatioOfTheDecision	Perhaps this may be due to his final opinion that the deceased died due to mechanical suffocation which might lead to the tongue being pressed between the teeth.
RatioOfTheDecision	This, however, th rows a cloud of doubt on the correctness or otherwise of the actual reports written by him and the one that was sent to the Chemical Examiner.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is obvious that in the carbon copy which was retained by the Doctor, the entries must have been made after the copy was sent to the Chemical Examiner.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, this circumstance is not of much consequence because the opinion of the Doctor that <NAME> died by forcible administration of potassium cyanide or by the process of mechanical suffocation has not been proved.
RatioOfTheDecision	155  This aspect need not detain us any further because <ORG> has not accepted the case of mechanical suffocation.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as the other findings of Dr. <NAME> are concerned we fully agree with the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	A number of comments were made on behalf of the appellant about Dr. <NAME>'s integrity and incorrect reports but subject to what we said, we do not find any substance in those contentions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In para 90 of its judgment <ORG> has given a number of circumstances which according to it, go  to prove the prosecution case showing that the appellant had administered the poison during the night of 11th June, 1982.
Fact	These circumstances may be extracted thus:  (1) In the bed-room <NAME> died of poisoning between 11.30 p.m. and 1. a.m. in the night between 11/12th June, 1982.
Fact	(2) Accused No.
Fact	1 was present in that bed room since before the death of <NAME> i.e.
Fact	since about 11.15 p.m.  (3) Accused No, 1 did not return to the flat at 1.30 a.m or 1.45 a.m. as alleged.
Fact	(4) The conduct of accused No.
Fact	1 in not calling for the immediate help of Dr. <NAME> and/or Mrs. <NAME> is inconsistent with his defence that he felt suspicious of the health of <NAME> when he allegedly returned to the flat at 1.30 a.m. (5) In different conduct of accused No.
Fact	1 when Dr. <NAME> and Dr. <NAME> went to the flat in Takshila apartment, Accused No.
Fact	1 did not show any anxiety which one normally finds when the doctor comes to examine the patient.
Fact	Accused No.
Fact	1 should have accompanied the doctors when they examined <NAME>  and should have expressly or by his behaviour disclosed his feelings about the well being of his wife.
Fact	It was also necessary for him to disclose the alleged fact that he saw <NAME> in a suspicious condition when he returned at about 1.30 a.m. Or so.
Fact	(6) An attempt of <NAME> to get the cremation of <NAME> done before 7 a. m. On 12.
Fact	6 82 even by spending any amount for that purpose.
Fact	This conduct though of <NAME> shows the conduct of a person to whom Accused No.
Fact	1 had gone and informed as to what had happened.
Fact	(7) Delay and false information to police at the hands of <NAME>.
Fact	Though the information is given by <NAME> as per the phone instructions of accused No.
RatioOfTheDecision	3 it is, presumed that accused No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1 must have told accused No.
RatioOfTheDecision	3 about the incident and on that basis accused No.3 gave instructions to <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	(8) Accused No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1 himself does not take any action either personally or through somebody else to give correct information to police.
RatioOfTheDecision	(9) Arrangement of the dead body to make show that <NAME> died  a peaceful and natural death.
RatioOfTheDecision	(10) Accused No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1 has a motive to kill <NAME> as he wanted to get rid of her to continue relations with <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	(11) Absence of an anklet on left ankle of <NAME> is inconsistent with the defence that <NAME> committed suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	(12) The conduct of the accused in concealing the anklet in the fold of the <NAME> is a Conduct of a guilty man.
RatioOfTheDecision	(13) The door of the bedroom was not found bolted from inside.
Fact	This would have been normally done by <NAME> if she had committed suicide.
Fact	(14) Potassium cyanide must not have been available to <NAME>.
Fact	(15) <NAME> was 4 to 6 weeks pregnant.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is a circumstance which would normally dissuade her from committing suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	(16) Denial of the part of accused No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1 of admitted or proved facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	(17) Raising a false plea of absence from the bedroom at the relevant time.
Precedent	(PP.
Precedent	152-155) We have already discussed most of the circumstances extracted above and given our opinion, and have also fully explained the effect of circumstances Nos.
Precedent	1,2,3,4,5 and 6 .
RatioOfTheDecision	We might again even at the risk of repetition say that too much reliance seems to have been placed by <ORG> on circumstance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	4 as the appellant did not immediately call for Dr. <NAME> (PW 26) and Dr. (Mrs.) <NAME> (PW 27).
RatioOfTheDecision	In a matter of this magnitude it would be quite natural for the members of the appellant's family to send for their own family doctor who was fully conversant with the ailment of every member of the family.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances there was nothing wrong if the appellant and his brother went to a distance of 11/2 Km.
RatioOfTheDecision	to get Dr. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly, Dr. <NAME> was skin specialist whereas Dr. (Mrs) <NAME> was a Paediatrician and the appellant may have genuinely believed that as they belonged to different branches, they were not all suitable to deal with such a serious case.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> was, therefore, wrong in treating this circumstance as an incriminating conduct of the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	Circumstance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	5 is purely conjectural because as soon as Dr. <NAME> ha came he examined <NAME> and advised that Dr. <NAME> be called.
RatioOfTheDecision	We fail to understand what was the indifferent conduct of the appellant when he had sent for the two Doctors who examined the deceased.
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellant was in the same room or rather in an adjacent room when the deceased was being examined.
RatioOfTheDecision	From this no inference can be drawn that the appellant was indifferent to the state in which <NAME> was found.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards circumstance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	6 we have already explained this while dealing with the evidence of <NAME>, <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards circumstance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	7, <ORG> has presumed that there being no dependable evidence that the information given to the police by <NAME> was false and that the appellant must have told A-3 about the incident on the basis of which he gave instructions to <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is also far from the truth as has been pointed out by us while dealing with the evidence of <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Circumstance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	8 is that <NAME> was asked to report the matter to the police.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the dead body was lying in the  flat what action could the appellant have taken except reporting the matter to the police through one of his known persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as circumstances Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	9 and 10 are concerned, they do not appear to us to be of any consequence because, as shown by us, from a reading of the letters (Exhs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30,32 and 33) and the conduct of the appellant, we do not find any evidence of a clear motive on the part of the appellant to kill <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Circumstances Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	11 and 12 are also of no assistance to the prosecution because whether the anklet was in the chaddar or elsewhere is wholly insignificant and does not affect the issue in question at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	Circumstance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	13 is also speculative because if the bedroom was not found bolted from inside that would it self not show that <NAME> could not have committed suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	Various persons may react to circumstances in different ways.
RatioOfTheDecision	When <NAME> entered her bedroom her <NAME> had not come and since she went to sleep she may not have bolted the door from inside to enable her <NAME> to ente r the room.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards circumstance No.
Precedent	14, <ORG> has overlooked a very important part of the evidence of PW 2 who has stated at page 178 of part I of the printed paperbook thus:  "The plastic factory at Beed is a partnership concern in which two sons of <NAME>, my wife and sister-in-law, i.e., brother's wife are partners."
Precedent	Dr. <NAME>'s Medical Jurisprudence and Texicology (19th Edn.)
Precedent	at page 747 shows that `Cyanide is also used for making basic chemicals for plastics'.
Precedent	Apart from the fact that <ORG> in relying on this circumstance has committed a clear error of record, it is an additional factor to show that cyanide could have been available to <NAME> when she visited Beed for the last time and had stayed there for more than a week.
Precedent	Circumstance No.15-the fact that <NAME> was 4 to 6 weeks pregnant would dissuade <NAME> from committing suicide is also purely speculative.
Precedent	A pregnancy of 4 to 6 weeks is not very serious and can easily be washed out.
Precedent	Moreover, when a person has decided to end one 's life these are matters which do not count at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, this circumstance may have prompted her to commit suicide for a child was born to her, in view of her ill-treatment by her <NAME> and her in-laws, the child may not get proper upbringing.
RatioOfTheDecision	Any way, we do not want to land ourselves in the field of surmises and conjectures as <ORG> has done.
RatioOfTheDecision	159  Circumstance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	17 is wholly irrelevant because the prosecution cannot derive any strength from a false plea unless it has proved its case with absolute certainty.
RatioOfTheDecision	Circumstance No.17 also is not relevant because there is no question of taking a false plea of absence from the bedroom at the relevant time as there is no clear evidence on this point.
RatioOfTheDecision	Apart from the aforesaid comments there is one vital defect in some of the circumstances mentioned above and relied upon by <ORG>, viz., circumstances Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	4,5,6,8,9,11,12,13,16, and 17.
RatioOfTheDecision	As these circumstances were not put to the appellant in his statement under s.313 of the Criminal  Procedure Code they must be completely excluded from consideration because the appellant did not have any chance to explain them.
RatioOfTheDecision	This has been consistently held by this <ORG> as far back as 1953 where in the case of <NAME> v. State of Madhya Pradesh(1) this <ORG> held that any circumstance in respect of which an accused was not examined under s. 342 of the Criminal procedure code cannot be used against him ever since this decision.
RatioOfTheDecision	there is a catena of authorities of this <ORG> uniformly taking the view that unless the circumstance appearing against an accused is put to him in his examination under s.342 of the or s.313 of the Criminal Procedure Code , the same cannot be used against him.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_491665> (2) this <ORG> held thus:  "The fact that the appellant was said to be absconding not having been put to him under section 342 , Criminal Procedure Code , could not be used against him."
RatioOfTheDecision	To the same effect is another decision of this <ORG> in <CITATION_520478> (3) where the following obs ervation were made:  "In the first place, he stated that on the personal search of the appellant, a chadi was found which was blood stained and according to the report of the serologist, it contained human blood.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unfortunately, however, as this circumstance was not put to the accused in his statement under section 342 , the prosecution cannot be permitted to rely on this statement in order to convict the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	':  It is not necessary for us to multiply authorities on this point as this question now stands concluded by several decision of this Court.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this view of the matter, the circumstances which were not put to the appellant in his examination under s.313 of the Criminal Procedure Code have to be completely excluded from consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	We might mention here an important argument advance by counsel for the appellant and countered by the Additional Solicitor General.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was argued before <ORG> that it was highly improbable that if the betrothal ceremony of appellant's sister, which was as imp ortant as the marriage itself, was going to be performed on the 13th of June, would the appellant clouse a day before that for murdering his wife and thereby bring disgrace and destruction not only to his family but also to her sister.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already adverted to this aspect of the matter but it is rather interesting to note how <ORG> has tried to rebut this inherent improbability, on the ground that in a case of administration of poison the culprit would just wait for an opportunity to administer the same and once he gets the opportunity he is not expected to think rationally but would commit the murder at once.
RatioOfTheDecision	With due respect to the Judges of <ORG>, we are not able to agree with the somewhat complex line of reasoning which is not supported by the evidence on record.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is clear evidence, led by the prosecution that except for a week or few days of intervals, <NAME> always used to live with her <NAME> and she had herself complained that he used to come late at night.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence, as both wer e living alone in the same room for the last four months there could be no dearth of any opportunity on the part of the appellant to administer poison if he really wanted to do so.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to follow the logic of <ORG> reasoning that once the appellant got an opportunity he must have clung to it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The evidence further shows that both <NAME> and appellant had gone for a honeymoon outside Pune and even at that time he could have murdered her and allowed the case to pass for a natural death.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, these are matters of conjectures.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Additional Solicitor-General realising the hollowness of <ORG> argument put it in a different way.
RatioOfTheDecision	He submitted that as the deceased was 4-6 weeks pregnant the appellant realised that unless the deceased was murdered at the behest it would become very difficult for him to murder her, even if he had got an opportunity, if a child was born and then he would have to maintain the child also which would have affected his illicit connections with <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This  appears to be an attractive argument but on close scrutiny it is untenable.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it was only a question of <NAME>'s being 4-6 weeks pregnant before her death, the appellant could just as well have waited just for another fortnight till the marriage of his sister was over which was fixed for 30th June, 1982 and then either have the pregnancy terminated or killed her.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover, it would appear from the evidence of PW 2 (P.176) that in his community the Kohl ceremony is not merely a formal betrothal but a very important ceremony in which all the near relations are called and invited to attend the function and a dinner is hosted.
RatioOfTheDecision	We might extract what PW 2 says about this:  "At the time of Kohl celebration of <NAME>, on 2.8.1981 my relatives i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	my sister from outside had attended this function and many people were invited for this function.
RatioOfTheDecision	A dinner was also hosted by me.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that function the <NAME> of the bridegroom is required to spend for the dinner while the presentations made to the bride are required to be g iven or donned at the expenses of the side of bridegroom This programme is not attended by the bridegroom."
RatioOfTheDecision	(P.176) As <NAME> and others were made co-accused in the case they were unable to give evidence on this point but it is the admitted case of both the parties that the accused belonged to the same community as PW 2.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances, it is difficult to accept the argument that the appellant would commit the murder of his wife just on the eve of Kohl ceremony, which he could have done the same long before that ceremony or after the marriage as there was no hurry nor any such impediment which would deny him any opportunity of murdering his wife.
RatioOfTheDecision	We now come to the nature and character of the circumstantial evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The law on the subject is well settled for the last 6-7 decades and there have been so many decisions on this point that the principles laid down by courts have become more or less axiomatic.
RatioOfTheDecision	162  <ORG> has referred to some decisions of this <ORG> and tried to apply the rat io of those cases to the present case which, as we shall show, are clearly distinguishable.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> was greatly impressed by the view taken by some courts, including this <ORG>, that a false defence or a false plea taken by an accused would be an additional link in the various chain of circumstantial evidence and seems to suggest that since the appellant had taken a false plea that would be conclusive, taken along with other circumstances, to prove the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	We might, however, mention at the outset that this is not what this <ORG> has said.
RatioOfTheDecision	We shall elaborate this aspect of the matter a little later It is well settled that the prosecution must stand or fall on its own legs and it cannot derive any strength from the weakness of the defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is trite law and no decision has taken a contrary view.
RatioOfTheDecision	What some cases have held is only this: where various links in a chain are in themselves complete than a false plea or a false defence may be called into aid only to lend assurance to the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other wo rds, before using the additional link it must be proved that all the links in the chain are complete and do not suffer from any infirmity.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not the law that where is any infirmity or lacuna in the prosecution case, the same could be cured or supplied by a false defence or a plea which is not accepted by a <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before discussing the cases relied upon by the High <ORG> we would like to cite a few decisions on the nature, character and essential proof required in a criminal case which rests on circumstantial evidence alone.
RatioOfTheDecision	The most fundamental and basic decision of this <ORG> is <CITATION_882637> .
RatioOfTheDecision	(1) This case has been uniformly followed and applied by this <ORG> in a large number of later decisions uptodate, for instance, the cases of <NAME> v. State of Uttar Pradesh(2) and <NAME> v. <ORG>).
Precedent	It may be useful to extract what <NAME>, J. has laid down in <NAME>'s case (supra):  "It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the c ircumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be fully established and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.
Precedent	Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.
Precedent	In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground far a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused."
Precedent	A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established:  (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
Precedent	It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned 'must or should' an d not 'may be' established.
Precedent	There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between 'may be proved' and 'must be or should be proved' as was held by this <ORG> in <CITATION_1035123> (') where the following observations were made:  "Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between 'may be' and 'must be' is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions."
Precedent	(2) The facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say.
Precedent	they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency.
Precedent	(4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human p robability the act must have been done by the accused.
Precedent	These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.
Precedent	It may be interesting to note that as regards the mode of proof in a criminal case depending on circumstantial evidence, in the absence of a corpus deliciti, the statement of law as to proof of the same was laid down by <NAME>, J.
Precedent	(and concurred by 3 more Judges) in <ORG>) thus:  "Before he can be convicted, the fact of death should be proved by such circumstances as render the commission of the crime morally certain and leave no ground for reasonable doubt: the circumstantial evidence should be so cogent and compelling as to convince a jury that up on no rational hypothesis other than murder can the facts be accounted for."
Precedent	Lord <NAME> slightly modified the expression, morally certain by 'such circumstances as render the commission of the crime certain'.
Precedent	This indicates the cardinal principle' of criminal  jurisprudence that a case can be said to be proved only when there is certain and explicit evidence and no person can be convicted on pure moral conviction.
Precedent	<NAME>'s case (supra) was approved by this <ORG> in <CITATION_1813863> (2) <NAME>'s case as also the principles enunciated by this <ORG> in <NAME>'s case (supra) have been uniformly and consistently followed in all later decisions of this <ORG> without any single exception.
Precedent	To quote a few cases <NAME>'s case (supra), <NAME> case (supra), <NAME> v. The State of Bombay (Criminal Appeal No.
Precedent	120 of 1957 decided on 19.2.58), <NAME> v. The State of Punjab (Criminal Appeal No.
Precedent	98 of 1958 decided on 4.11.1958).
RatioOfTheDecision	There are a number of other cases where although <NAME>'s case has not been expressly noticed but the same principles have been expounded and reiterated, as in <CITATION_362252> (l).
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_110161> .,(2) <CITATION_1339608> (3) and <CITATION_694079> (4)-a five-Judge Bench decision.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be necessary here to notice a ver y forceful argument submitted by the Additional Solicitor-General relying on a decision of this Court in <CITATION_919738> (5), to supplement this argument that if the defence case is false it would constitute an additional link so as to fortify the prosecution case.
RatioOfTheDecision	With due respect to the learned Additional Solicitor General we are unable to agree with the interpretation given by him of the aforesaid case, the relevant portion of which may be extracted thus:  "But in a case like this where the various links as started above have been satisfactorily made out and the circumstances point to the appellant as the probable assailant, with reasonable definiteness and in proximity to the deceased as regards time and situation-such absence of explanation of false explanation would itself be an additional link which completes the chain."
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be seen that this Court while taking into account the absence of explanation or a false explanation did hold that it will amount to be an additional link to complete the cha in but these observations must be read in the light of what this Court said earlier, viz., before a false explanation can be used as additional link, the following essential conditions must be satisfied:  (1) various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved.
RatioOfTheDecision	(2) the said circumstance point to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness, and (3) the circumstance is in proximity to the time and situation.
RatioOfTheDecision	166  If these conditions are fulfilled only then a court can use a false explanation or a false defence as an additional link to lend an assurance to the court and not otherwise.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the facts and circumstances of the present case, this does not appear to be such a case.
Precedent	This aspect of the matter was examined in <NAME>'s case (supra) where this Court observed thus:  "Besides, falsity of defence cannot take the place of proof of facts which the prosecution has to establish in order to succeed.
RatioOfTheDecision	A false plea can at best be considered as an additional circ umstance, if other circumstances point unfailingly to the guilt of the accused."
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG>, therefore, has in no way departed from the five conditions laid down in <NAME>'s case (supra).
RatioOfTheDecision	Unfortunately, however, the High <ORG> also seems to have misconstrued this decision and used the so-called false defence put up by the appellant as one of the additional circumstances connected with the chain.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is a vital difference between an incomplete chain of circumstances and a circumstance which, after the chain is complete, is added to it merely to reinforce the conclusion of the court.
RatioOfTheDecision	Where the prosecution is unable to prove any of the essential principles laid down in <NAME>'s case, the High <ORG> cannot supply the weakness or the lacuna by taking aid of or recourse to a false defence or a false plea.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are, therefore, unable to accept the argument of the Additional Solicitor-General Moreover, in <NAME> case (supra) this <ORG> while reiterating the principles enunciated in <NAME>'s case observ ed thus:  "If the circumstances proved in the case are consistent either with the innocence of the accused or with his guilt, then the accused is entitled to the benefit of doubt."
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>'s (supra) this <ORG> reiterated the same view thus:  "Legal principles are not magic incantations and their importance lies more in their application to a given set of facts than in their recital in the judgment".
RatioOfTheDecision	We then pass on to another important point which seems to have been completely missed by the High <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is well settled that where on the evidence two possibilities are available or open, one which goes in favour of the prosecution and the other which benefits an accused, the accused is undoubtedly entitled to the benefit of doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1072474> ,(l) this <ORG> made the following observations:  "Another golden thread which runs through the web of the administration of justice in criminal cases is that if two views are possible on the evidence adduced in the case one pointing to the guilt of the ac cused and the other to his innocence, the view which is favourable to the accused should be adopted This principle has a special relevance in cases where in the guilt of the accused is sought to be established by circumstantial evidence."
RatioOfTheDecision	We now come to the mode and manner of proof of cases of murder by administration of poison.
Fact	In <NAME>'s case (supra) this <ORG> held thus:  "Three questions arise in such cases, namely (firstly), did the deceased die of the poison in question ?
Fact	(secondly), had the accused the poison in his possession ?
Precedent	and (thirdly), had the accused an opportunity to administer the poison in question to the deceased ?
Precedent	It is only when the motive is there and these facts are all proved that the court may be able to draw the inference, that the poison was administered by the accused to the deceased resulting in his death."
Precedent	So far as this matter is concerned, in such cases the court must carefully scan the evidence and determine the four important circumstances which alone can justify a conv iction:  (1) there is a clear motive for an accused to administer poison to the deceased, (2) that the deceased died of poison said to have been administered, (3) that the accused had the poison in his possession, (4) that he had an opportunity to administer the poison to the deceased.
Precedent	168  In the instant case, while two ingredients have been proved but two have not.
Precedent	In the first place, it has no doubt been proved that <NAME> died of potassium cyanide and secondly, it has also been proved that there was an opportunity to administer the poison.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has, however, not been proved by any evidence that the appellant had the poison in his possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, as indicated above, there is clear evidence of PW 2 that potassium cyanide could have been available to <NAME> from the plastic factory of her mother, but there is no evidence to show that the accused could have procured potassium cyanide from any available source.
RatioOfTheDecision	We might here extract a most unintelligible and extra-ordinary finding of <ORG> -  "It is true that there is no direct evidence on these two points, because the prosecution is not able to lead evidence that the accused had secured potassium cyanide poison from a particular source.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly there is no direct evidence to prove that he had administered poison to <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, it is not necessary to prove each and every fact by a direct evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Circumstantial evidence can be a basis for proving this fact."
RatioOfTheDecision	(P.160) The comment by <ORG> appears to be frightfully vague and absolutely unintelligible.
RatioOfTheDecision	While holding in the clearest possible terms that there is no evidence in this case to show that the appellant was in possession or poison, <ORG> observes that this fact may be proved either by direct or indirect (circumstantial) evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it fails to indicate the nature of the circumstantial or indirect evidence to show that the appellant was in possession of poison.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the court seems to suggest that merely because the appellant had the opportunity to administer poison  and the same was found in the body of the deceased, it should be presumed that the appellant was in possession of poison, than it has committed a serious and gross error of law and has blatantly violated the principles laid down by this <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> has not indicated as to what was the basis for coming to a finding that the accused could have procured the cyanide.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, in view of the decision in <NAME>'s case (supra) failure to prove possession of the cyanide poison with the accused by itself would result in failure of the prosecution to prove its case.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are constrained to observe that <ORG> has completely misread and misconstru-  169  ed the decision in <NAME>'s case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even prior to <NAME>'s case there are two decisions of this <ORG> which have taken the same view.
Precedent	In <NAME> case (Criminal Appeal No.
Precedent	120 of 1957 decided on 19.2.58) this <ORG> observed thus:  "Before a person can be convicted of murder by poisoning, it is necessary to prove that th e death of the deceased was caused by poison, that the poison in question was in possession of the accused and that poison was administered by the accused to the deceased.
Precedent	There is no direct evidence in this case that the accused was in possession of Potassium Cyanide or that he administered the same to the deceased."
Precedent	The facts of the case cited above were very much similar to the present appeal.
Precedent	Here also, the Court found that circumstances afforded a greater motive to the deceased to commit suicide than for the accused to commit murder.
Precedent	This view was reiterated in <NAME> case (Criminal Appeal No.
Precedent	98 of 1958 decided on 4.11.1958) where the court observed as follows:  "Therefore, along with the motive, the prosecution has also to establish that the deceased died of a particular poison said to have been administered, that the accused was in possession of that poison and that he had the opportunity to administer the same to the deceased: (see <CITATION_56500> (').
Precedent	It is only when the motive is there  and these facts are all proved that the court may be able to draw the inference, in a case of circumstantial evidence, that the poison was administered by the accused to the deceased resulting in his death.
RatioOfTheDecision	We feel that it was not right for <ORG> to say, when this link in the chain had failed, that it could not be very difficult for anybody to procure potassium cyanide and therefore the absence of proof of possession of potassium cyanide by the accused was practically of no effect.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the facts as found by <ORG> it must be held that the second of the three facts which have to be proved, in case of poisoning based on circumstantial evidence has not been proved, namely that the accused was in possession of the poison that had been found in the body-Can it be said in these circumstances when the proof of a very vital fact namely, that the accused was in possession of potassium cyanide, has failed that the chain of circumstantial evidence, is so far complete as not to leave any reasonable grou nd for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and that the evidence which remains after the rejection of this fact is such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused."
RatioOfTheDecision	We are, therefore, clearly of the opinion that the facts of the present appeal are covered by the ratio of the aforesaid decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	At any rate, taking the worst view of the matter on the evidence in this case two possibilities are clearly open-  (1) that it may be a case of suicide, or (2) that it may be a case of murder and both are equally probable, hence the prosecution case stands disproved.
RatioOfTheDecision	We now proceed to deal with some of the judgments of this Court on which great reliance has been placed by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the first place, <ORG> relied on the case of <CITATION_1985201> (').
RatioOfTheDecision	This case appears to be clearly distinguishable because no point of law was involved therein and on the facts proved and the very extraordinary conduct of the accused, the court held tha t the circumstantial evidence was consistent only with the guilt of the accused and inconsistent with any other rational explanation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, if this would have been our finding in this particular case, there could be no question that the conviction of the accused would have been upheld.
RatioOfTheDecision	The next on which <ORG> placed great reliance is case <NAME>'s case (supra).
RatioOfTheDecision	This case also does not appear to be of any assistance to the prosecution.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the first place, the case was decided on the peculiar facts of that case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Secondly, even though the corpus deliciti was not held to be proved yet the medical evidence and the conduct of the accused unerringly pointed to the inescapable conclusion that the death of the deceased was as a result of administration of poison and that the accused was the person who admini-  171  stered the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	This.
RatioOfTheDecision	however, is not the case here.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, we have held that the conduct of the appellant has not been proved to be inconsistent with his guilt and on this ground alo ne the present case can be easily distinguished.
RatioOfTheDecision	If at all it is an authority it is on the point that this <ORG> is not required to enter into an elaborate examination of the evidence unless there are very special circumstances to justify the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	At this <ORG> in that case was clearly of the view that the High <ORG> had fully considered the facts and a multitude of circumstances against the accused remained unexplained, the presumption of innocence was destroyed and the High <ORG> was therefore right in affirming the conviction.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course, <NAME>, J. gave a dissenting judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	From a detailed scrutiny of the decision cited above (<NAME>'s Case) we find that there is nothing in common between the peculiar facts of that case and the present one.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence, this authority is also of no assistance to the prosecution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reliance was then placed on the case of <CITATION_26756> (l) but we are unable to see how this decision helps the prosecution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The High <ORG> relied on the fact that as the accused had taken the deceas ed immediately to <ORG> in order to stop the poison from spreading, this particular fact was eloquent enough to speak for the innocence of the accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	A careful perusal of that decision shows that this Court did not accept the prosecution case despite circumstances appearing in that case which are almost similar to those found in the present one.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover, here also the accused had immediately sent for their family Doctor after they had detected that <NAME> was dead.
RatioOfTheDecision	The reason for a little delay in lodging the FIR has already been explained by us while dealing with the facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the decision cited above, it was clearly held that the case against the accused was not proved conclusively and unerringly and that two reasonable views were possible, the relevant portion of which may be extracted thus:  "On a consideration of the evidence and the circumstances referred to above, we are satisfied that this is a case in which the circumstantial evidence did not prove the case against the accused conclusi vely and unerringly, and at any rate two reasonable views were possible."
RatioOfTheDecision	172  We have already found in the instant case that taking the prosecution at the highest the utmost that can be said is that two views-one in favour of the accused and the other against him-were possible.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> case also therefore supports the appellant rather than the prosecution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The last case relied upon by <ORG> is <NAME>'s case (supra) but we are unable to see how this case helps the prosecution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The observations on which <ORG> has relied upon appears to have been torn from the context.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, this decision fully supports the case of the appellant that falsity of defence cannot take the place of proof of facts which the prosecution has to establish in order to succeed.
RatioOfTheDecision	This decision has already been dealt with by us while considering the merits of the present case and it is not necessary to repeat the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	These are the only important cases of this Court on which <ORG> seeks to r ely and which, on a close examination, do not appear to be either relevant or helpful to the prosecution case in any way.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, some of the observations made in these cases support the accused rather than the prosecution.
RatioOfTheDecision	This now brings us to the fag end of our judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	After a detailed discussion of the evidence, the circumstances of the case and interpretation of the decisions of this <ORG> the legal and factual position may be summarised thus:  (1) That the five golden principles enunciated by this <ORG> in <NAME>'s decision (supra) have not been satisfied in the instant case.
RatioOfTheDecision	As a logical corollary, it follows that it cannot be held that the act of the accused cannot be explained on any other hypothesis except the guilt of the appellant nor can it be said that in all human probability, the accused had committed the murder of <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, the prosecution has not fulfilled the essential requirements of a criminal case which rests purely on circumstantial evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	(2) That, at an y rate, the evidence clearly shows that two views are possible-one pointing to the guilt of the accused and the other leading to his innocence.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be very likely that the appellant may have administered the poison (potassium cyanide) to <NAME> but at the same time a fair possibility that she herself committed suicide cannot be safely excluded or eliminated.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence, on this ground alone the appellant is entitled to the benefit of doubt resulting in his acquittal.
RatioOfTheDecision	(3) The prosecution has miserably failed to prove one of the most essential ingredients of a case of death caused by administration of poison, i.e., possession of poison with the accused (either by direct of circumstantial evidence) and on this ground alone the prosecution must fail.
RatioOfTheDecision	(4) That in appreciating the evidence, <ORG> has clearly misdirected itself on many points, as pointed out by us, and has thus committed a gross error of law:  (5) That <ORG> has relied upon decisions of this <ORG> which are either inapplicable or whi ch, on closer examination, do not support the view of <ORG> being clearly distinguishable.
RatioOfTheDecision	(6) That <ORG> has taken a completely wrong view of law in holding that even though the prosecution may suffer from serious infirmities it could be reinforced by additional link in the nature of false defence in order to supply the lacuna and has thus committed a fundamental error of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	(7) That <ORG> has not only misappreciated the evidence but has completely overlooked the well established principles of law and in view of our finding it is absolutely clear that <ORG> has merely tried to accept the prosecution case based on tenterhooks and slender tits and bits.
RatioOfTheDecision	(8) We entirely agree with <ORG> that it is wholly unsafe to rely on that part of the evidence of Dr. <NAME> (PW 33) which shows that poison was forcibly administered by the process of mechanical suffocation.
RatioOfTheDecision	(9) We also agree with <ORG> that there is no manifest defect in the investigation made by th e police which appears to be honest and careful.
RatioOfTheDecision	A proof positive of this fact is that even though <NAME> and other members of his family who had practically no role to play had been arrayed as accused but they had to be acquitted by <ORG> for lack of legal evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	(10) That in view of our finding that two views are clearly possible in the present case, the question of defence being false dose not arise and the argument of <ORG> that the defence is false does not survive.
RatioOfTheDecision	This was a fit case in which <ORG> should have given at least the benefit of doubt to the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	Normally, this <ORG>t does not interfere with the concurrent findings of fact of the courts below, in the absence of very special circumstances or gross errors of law committed by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	But where <ORG> ignores or overlocks the crying circumstances and proved facts, violates and misapplies the well established principles of criminal jurisprudence or decisions rendered by this <ORG> t on appreciation of circumstantial evidence and refuses to give benefit of doubt to the accused despite facts apparent on the face of the record or on its own findings or tries to gloss over them without giving any reasonable explanation or commits errors of law apparent on the face of the record which results in serious and substantial miscarriage of justice to the accused, it is the duty of this <ORG> to step in and correct the legally erroneous decision of the High <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	We can fully understand that though the case superficially viewed bears an ugly look so as to prima facie shock the conscience of any <ORG> yet suspicion, however great it may be, cannot take the place of legal proof.
RatioOfTheDecision	A moral conviction however strong or genuine cannot amount to a legal conviction supportable in law.
Precedent	175  It must be recalled that the well established rule of criminal justice is that 'fouler the crime higher the proof'.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the instant case, the life and liberty of a subject was at stake.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the accused was given a capit al sentence, a very careful, cautious and meticulous approach was necessary to be made.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> (from the evidence on the record) appears to be not only a highly sensitive woman who expected whole-hearted love and affection from her <NAME> but having been thoroughly disappointed out of sheer disgust, frustration and depression she may have chosen to end her life-at least this possibility is clearly gleaned from her letters and mental attitude.
RatioOfTheDecision	She may have been fully justified in entertaining an expectation that after marriage her <NAME> would look after her with affection and regard.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is clearly spelt out in the letters where she hinted that her <NAME> a was so busy that he found no time for her.
RatioOfTheDecision	A hard fact of life, which cannot be denied, is that some people in view of their occupation or profession fined very little time to devote to their family.
RatioOfTheDecision	Speaking in a light vein, lawyers, professors, Doctors and perhaps Judges fall within this category and to them <NAME>'s case should be an eye- opener.
RatioOfTheDecision	Fo r the reasons given above we hold that the prosecution has failed to prove its case against appellant beyond reasonable doubt.
RulingByPresentCourt	We, therefore, allow the appeal, set aside the judgments of the courts below and acquit the appellant, <NAME>, of the charges framed against him and direct him to be released and set at liberty forthwith.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of <ORG> of <ORG> in Criminal Appeal No.
Precedent	265 of 1983 and Confirmation Case No.
Precedent	3 of 1983, dismissing the appeal and confirming the sentence of death awarded to the first accused <NAME> (hereinafter referred to as the 'appellant') by the Additional Sessions Judge, Pune in Sessions Case No.
Precedent	203 of 1982.
Precedent	The appellant, <NAME> and <NAME> were accused 1, 2 and 3 respectively in the Sessions Case.
Argument	The appellant and the second accused are the sons of one <NAME> of Pune whose family has a cloth business.
Argument	In ad dition the appellant who is said to be a graduate in <ORG> had started a chemical factory at Bhosari, a suburb of Pune.
Fact	The third accused is uncle of the appellant and the second accused.
Fact	The appellant is the <NAME> of <NAME> alias <NAME> while the second accused is the <NAME> of <NAME> (<NAME>.35).
Fact	<NAME>'s family has its residential house at Ravivar Peth in Pune and owns a flat in a building known as Takshasheela Apartments in Mukund Nagar area of Pune.
Fact	<NAME>, the alleged victim in this case, was the eldest amongst the five children of <NAME> (<NAME> 2) and <NAME> (<NAME>.20).
Fact	<NAME> (<NAME>.6) is the second daughter of <NAME>.2 who is a Commercial Tax and Income Tax Consultant since 1960.
Fact	<NAME>.2 is living in his own house situate in Subash Road in Beed city since 1973, prior to which he was living in a rented house in Karimpura Peth in that city.
Fact	<NAME> (<NAME>.5) is a school and college mate and friend of <NAME> who passed the B.Sc.
Fact	examination in Chemistry in the First Class in 1980 while <NAME>.5  who had passed the 10th standard examination together with <NAME> was still studying in college.
Fact	<NAME> (<NAME>) whom <NAME> used to call as <NAME> is another friend of <NAME>.
Fact	She is living with her <NAME> Dr. <NAME> in a portion of <NAME>'s house in Subash Road, Pune as his tenant.
Fact	<NAME>0's elder brother <NAME> (<NAME>2) is a resident of Pune where he is doing business in the sale of plastic bags for the manufacture of which he has a plastic factory called <ORG> at Beed.
Fact	It is a partnership concern of <NAME>0 and some others including <NAME>2's third son <NAME>.
Fact	<NAME> is one of the two sons of P.Ws.
Fact	2 and 20.
Fact	After <NAME> passed her B.Sc.
Fact	degree examination in 1980 her marriage with the appellant was settled by a formal betrothal ceremony which took place in June 1981.
Fact	The marriage of the appellant and <NAME> was performed at the expense of <NAME> at Beed on 11.2.1982.
Fact	The appellant and <NAME> left for Pune on 12.2.1982 after the marriage.
Fact	Subsequently, <NAME> sent his elder son <NAME> for fet ching <NAME> from the appellant's house at Pune and they accordingly came back to Beed on 22.2.1982.
Fact	The appellant went to Beed four or five days later and took <NAME> back to Pune on the next day after pleading his inability to stay in <NAME>'s house for some more days.
Fact	This was <NAME>'s first visit to her parents' house after her marriage with the appellant.
Fact	She is said to have been very happy during that visit.
Fact	Thereafter <NAME> came to her parents' house alongwith her maternal uncle <NAME> (<NAME>2) on or about 2.4.1982.
Fact	It is the case of the prosecution that during that visit <NAME> was uneasy and had generally complained against the appellant to P.Ws.3 and 6.
Fact	<NAME> planned to keep <NAME> in his house for about three weeks on that occasion.
Fact	But news of the death of the appellant's grand <NAME> was received in <NAME>'s house in Beed and, therefore, P.Ws.
Fact	2 and 20 and <NAME> went to Pune for condolences on 11.4.1982.
Fact	After meeting the appellant's <NAME> and others at Pune, P.Ws.
Fact	2 and 20 returned to Beed leav ing <NAME> in the appellant's house in Pune.
Fact	That was the second visit of <NAME> to her parents' house after marriage with the appellant.
Fact	P.Ws.2 and 20 came to Pune again on or about 13.5.1982.
Fact	After staying for some time as usual in the house of <NAME>, P.Ws.
Fact	2 and 20 visited the house of <NAME> on that occasion.
Fact	It is the case of the prosecution that P.Ws.
Fact	2 and 20 found <NAME> disturbed and uneasy and that they, therefore, took her to the house of <NAME> with the permission of <NAME>.
Fact	It is also the case of the prosecution that on reaching <NAME>'s house <NAME> completely broke down and started weeping in the arms of <NAME>.
Fact	P.Ws.
Fact	2 and 20 returned to Beed from Pune and sent their second son <NAME> four or five days later to fetch <NAME>, who had, however, by then gone with the appellant to Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh.
Fact	After learning that the appellant and <NAME> had returned to Pune, <NAME> sent his son <NAME> to fetch <NAME> to Beed.
Fact	Accordingly <NAME> brought <NAME> to Beed accompanied by the third  accused daughter <NAME> on 25.5.1982.
Fact	This was <NAME>'s third and last visit to her parents' house after her marriage with the appellant.
Fact	It is the case of the prosecution that <NAME> was totally disturbed and frightened during that visit and that she complained to her mother <ORG> against the appellant and she in turn conveyed to <ORG> what she heard from <NAME>.
Fact	<NAME> went to Beed on 2.6.1982 without any prior intimation for taking <NAME> to Pune on the ground that <NAME>'s presence in his family house at pune was necessary for the betrothal ceremony of his daughter <NAME> fixed for 13.6.1982 as well as for her marriage fixed for 30.6.1982.
Fact	It is the case of the prosecution that when <NAME> came to know that her <NAME> in-law <NAME> had come for taking her to Pune she was wept and expressed her unwillingness to go to Pune and that, however, on the assurance of <NAME> that he would see to it that nothing happened to the life of <NAME>, <NAME> permitted <NAME> to go to Pune alongwith <NAME> and  she accordingly went to Pune on 3.6.1982 alongwith <NAME> and <NAME>.
Fact	178  The family of <NAME> and his sons including the appellant is joint.
Fact	As stated earlier they have their family's residential house at Ravivar Peth, Pune besides the flat which they owned in the Takshasheela Apartments situate at some distance from their family house.
Fact	Their flat has two bed-rooms besides a hall and other portions.
Fact	<NAME>'s two married sons, the appellant and the second accused used to go to the family's flat in the Takshasheela Apartments for sleeping during the nights.
Fact	The appellant and <NAME> used to sleep in one of the two bed-rooms while the second accused and his wife <NAME> (<NAME>) and their children used to sleep in the other bed-room.
Fact	<NAME> had written amongst others, three letters, Ex.33 dated 25.4.1982 to her friend <NAME> (<NAME>) and Ex.
Fact	p. 30 dated 8.2.1982 and p. 32 dated 8.6.1982 to her younger sister <NAME> (<NAME>).
Fact	In Ex.
Argument	33 <NAME> has stated inter alia that she was feeling lonely though al l persons in pune were very good and everybody was loving and that one reason is that there are many elderly persons in the house and, therefore, she does not dare to do any work independently and the fear which is in her mind every time leads to confusion.
Argument	She has also stated in that letter though all person in Pune were very good that she becomes angry if he (appellant) does not speak to her when she goes and talks to him even ten times and that till now this man (appellant) had no time to mind his wife.
Argument	She has stated in that letter that she dare not ask him (appellant) whether his clothes be taken for washing and that at present her status is only that of an unpaid maid-servant.
Argument	She has finally stated in that letter that on the day on which self-pride in the appellant is reduced no other person will be more fortunate than her but it is not certain whether she will be alive until that date.
Argument	In Ex.
Argument	30 she has stated inter alia that she was undergoing a very difficult test and was unable to achieve her objec t, that it would be well and good only if she controls herself and that some other way will have to be evolved when' that becomes impossible.
Argument	In Ex.
Argument	32 she has stated that though she was happy at Pune she does not know why there is such a dirty atmosphere in the house and it is felt every moment that something will happen.
Argument	She has also stated in that letter that no work had been started in the house though <NAME>'s 'sari' function is fixed for 13.6.1982 and, therefore, she is out of her mind.
Fact	The case of the prosecution as regards the alleged occurrence during the night of 11/12.6.1982 is thus: on 11- 6-1982 at about 10.30 p.m. <NAME> accompanied by <NAME>, (P.W.
Fact	35) and three children of the latter came to the Taksheela Apartments by an auto-rickshaw.
Fact	The night-watchman of <ORG>, <NAME> (P.W.
Fact	28) has deposed about this fact.
Fact	<NAME>, (P.W.
Fact	7) an auto-rickshaw driver residing in the border of Ganesh Peth and Ravivar Peth in Pune claims to have taken two ladies, three children and  a <NAME> by his auto-rickshaw at about 11 p.m. on that day to Mukund Nagar.
Fact	He has identified the photo of <NAME> published in a newspaper two or three days later as that of one of the two ladies who travelled by his auto-rickshaw as aforesaid.
Fact	The second accused had already gone to the flat in the Takshasheela Apartments.
Fact	The appellant reached the flat about 15 minutes later by a scooter, whom the night watchman (<NAME>) remarked that he was coming rather late he told <NAME> that it was because he had a meeting.
Fact	After the appellant reached the flat he and <NAME> retired to their bed-room while the second accused and <NAME> retired to their's.
Fact	Thereafter the appellant came out of his bed-room at about 2 a.m. on 12.6.1982 and went to the second accused and both of them went out of that flat by scooters soon afterwards.
Fact	The appellant proceeded to Ravivar Peth and called his <NAME> while the second accused went to call Dr. <NAME>.
Fact	(<NAME>) who lives about one and a half kilo metres away from the Taksh asheela Apartments without seeking the help of Dr. <NAME> 26) and her <NAME> Dr. <NAME> (P.W.
Fact	27) who lived close by in the same Takshasheela Apartments.
Fact	<NAME> the appellant's flat at about 2.30 a.m. and found <NAME> dead, with rigor motis having already set in and no external mark showing the cause of death.
Fact	He, however, opined that it may be a case of unnatural death and suggested that the police may be informed.
Fact	When <NAME> who had arrived at the flat by then advised that some other doctor may be called as he was not satisfied with the opinion of <ORG> suggested that Dr. <NAME>, P.W 25 may be called if so desired.
Fact	Thereafter, <ORG> and the third concerned who had come with <NAME> went to call <NAME> lives about 7 kilo metres away from the Takshasheela Apartments.
Fact	On their way they contacted <ORG> over the phone and took him to the appellant's flat where he examined <NAME> at about 4 a.m. and pronounced that she was dead.
Fact	He opined that she might have  died three or four hours earlier and stated that there was no external evidence showing the cause of death.
Fact	He too suggested that the police should be informed to avoid any trouble.
Fact	180  The third accused went to <NAME>, (<NAME> at about 4.30 a.m. on 12.6.1982 and called him to the appellant's flat after informing him that <NAME> was dead.
Fact	<NAME> who accompanied the third accused, saw the body of <NAME> in the flat and left the place after suggesting that the police should be informed.
Fact	The third accused contacted <NAME> over the phone at about 6.30 a.m. and asked him to go and inform the police that <NAME> had died at 5.30 a.m. <NAME> accordingly went to Maharishi Nagar Police Station at about 7 or 7.15 a.m. and informed the Head Constable, (<NAME>) who thereupon made the entry Ex.
Fact	120 to the effect that <NAME> was found to be dead when the appellant tried to wake her a up at 5.30 a.m- on 12.6.1982.
Fact	<NAME> proceeded to the appellant's flat at about 8 a.m. after informing <NAME>, P. <NAME> telephonically about the suspicious death of <NAME>.
Fact	On receipt of information from <NAME> a lightning telephone call at about 6 a.m. on 12.6.1982 that <NAME> was extremely serious <NAME> went from Beed to Pune alongwith his wife <NAME>0 and his son <NAME> and <NAME> (P.W.
Fact	4) by jeep at about 1 P.m. on 12.6.1982. and learnt that <NAME> was dead.
Fact	Thereafter <NAME> went alongwith <NAME> to the Sasson Hospital where <NAME>'s body had been sent by the police for autopsy.
Fact	Dr. <NAME>, <NAME> who conducted autopsy on the body of <NAME> did not find any external or internal injury.
Fact	He preserved the viscera, small intestines etc.
Fact	of <NAME> and reserved his opinion about the cause of her death.
Fact	On receipt of the Chemical Examiner's report Ex.
Fact	130 to the effect that <NAME>'s viscera contained potassium cyanide poison <NAME> finally opined that <NAME> had died due to potassium cyanide poisoning and simultaneous mechanical suffocation.
Fact	After completing the investigation <NAME> filed the  charge-sheet against the appellant and the other two accused on 13.9.1982.
Fact	The Additional Sessions Judge, Pune tried the appellant for offence under Sec.
Fact	302 IPC of murder of <NAME> by administering potassium cyanide poison or by suffocating her or by both, all the three accused for the offence under Sec.
Fact	120 B IPC of conspiring to destroy the evidence of the murder of <NAME> by giving a false report to the police about the time of her death and the third accused for the offence under Sec.
Fact	109 read with Sec.
Fact	201 IPC and Sec.
Fact	201 IPC for intsigating P.W.30 to give false information to the police and giving false information to P.W.
Fact	22 regarding the murder of <NAME>.
Fact	181  The appellant and the other two accused denied the charges framed against them.
Fact	The appellant denied that he had anything to do with <NAME> (P.W.
Fact	37) with whom is alleged to have been in love at the relevant time.
Fact	He admitted that <NAME> and <NAME> accompanied by some children went to their flat in the Takshasheela Apartments at about 10.30 p. m. on 11.6.1982 but denied that they travelled by any auto-rickshaw and stated that they went there by their family's car driven by the second accused.
Fact	He denied that he went to the flat about 15 minutes later and stated that he returned to the fiat only at 1.30 or 1.45 a.m. on 12.6 1982 after attending a meeting in <ORG>.
Fact	He stated that after changing his clothes he looked at <NAME> and found something abnormal and became suspicious and then went to the second accused and that there after he went to call his <NAME> and uncle while the second accused went to call Dr. <NAME>, <NAME>.
Fact	<ORG> found all the three accused guilty as charged and convicted them accordingly and sentenced the appellant to death under s.302 IPC and all the three accused to rigorous imprisonment for two years and a fine of Rs.
Fact	2,000 each under s.120 B IPC but did not award any sentence under s.201 read with s.120B The appellant and the other two accused filed appeals against their conviction and the sentences  awarded to them.
Fact	The <ORG> filed a criminal revision application for enhancement of the sentence awarded to accused 2 and 3.
Fact	These appeals, confirmation case and criminal revision application were heard together by <ORG> of <ORG>, which in a lengthy judgment.
Fact	(195 pages of our paper book) allowed the appellant's appeal in part regarding his conviction and sentence under s.120 B IPC but confirmed his conviction and sentence of death awarded under s 302 IPC and allowed the appeal of accused 2 and 3 in full and acquitted them and dismissed the criminal revision application.
Fact	Hence, the appellant alone has come up before this Court on special leave against his conviction and the sentence of death.
Fact	I had the benefit of reading the judgment of my learned brother <NAME>, J. I agree with his final conclusion that the appeal should succeed.
Fact	The learned Judges of <ORG> have relied upon 17 circumstances for confirming the conviction and sentence of death awarded to the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	My learned brother <NAME> J. has rightly rejected every one of those circumstances as not conclusively pointing to the guilt of the appellant, including the circumstance that the appellant was last seen with <NAME> before her death on the ground that the case of the prosecution based on evidence of Dr. <NAME> (P.W.
RatioOfTheDecision	33) that there was any mechanical suffocation of <NAME> has been disbelieved by <ORG> itself and that some entries in the carbon copy Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	134 of <NAME> report sent to the Chemical Examiner had been scored and interpolated after his report Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	132 to the Chemical Examiner had left his hands, that the original entry in the postmortem certificate Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	134 contained the words 'can be a case of suicidal death' and, that the explanation of P.W.33.
RatioOfTheDecision	that he wrote the words 'time of death' twice and not the words 'can be a case of suicidal death' and, therefore, he scored off one of them is not acceptable at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	Doctors P.W.24 and 25 did not find any external injury on the body of <NAME> whic h they saw at about 2.30 and 4.30 a.m. on 12.6.1982.
Precedent	Even P.W.33.
Precedent	did not find any external or internal injury on the body of <NAME>.
Precedent	In these circumstances, unless the prosecution excludes the possibility of <NAME> having committed suicide by consuming potassium cyanide poison, as rightly pointed out by my learned brother <NAME> J., (no adverse inference of guilt can be drawn against the appellant from the fact that he was last seen with <NAME>, he being no other than her own <NAME> who is naturally expected to be with her during nights.)
Precedent	Some of these 17 circumstances cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be held to point to the quilt of the appellant.
Precedent	Circumstance No.
Precedent	6 is an attempt of the appellant's <NAME> <NAME> to get the body of <NAME> cremated before 7 a.m. On 12.6.1982 by expressing such a desire to P.W.30.
Precedent	Circumstance No.9 is arrangement of the dead body of <NAME> to make it appear that she died a peaceful and natural death.
Precedent	Circumstance No.
Precedent	11 is absence of an anklet of <NAME> from her leg.
RatioOfTheDecision	Circumstance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	12 is the conduct of the appellant in allegedly concealing the anklet in the fold of the chaddar.
RatioOfTheDecision	Circumstance No.
RatioOfTheDecision	15 is the fact that according to the medical evidence <NAME> was pregnant by four to six weeks and it would normally dissuade her from committing suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	With respect to the learned judges of <ORG>, in my view, by no stretch of imagination, can any of these circumstances be considered to point to nothing but the guilt of the appellant in a case resting purely on circumstantial evidence.
Precedent	However, since I am unable to persuade myself to agree with my learned brother <NAME> J. on four points, I am writing this separate but concurring judgment, giving my view on those points, namely, (1) ill-treatment of <NAME> by the appellant, (2) intimacy of the appellant with <NAME> (P.W.37), (3) admissibility of <NAME>'s letters Exs.
Precedent	30,32 and 33 and the oral evidence of P.Ws.
Precedent	2,3,5,6 and 20 about the alleged complaints made by <NAME> against the appellant under s. 32 (1) of the Evid ence Act and (4) conduct of Dr. <NAME> (P.W.33) who had conducted autopsy on the body of <NAME>.
Precedent	My learned brother <NAME>, J. has observed as follows at pages 3 and 96 of his judgment:  "On the other hand the plea of the defence was that while there was a strong possibility of <NAME> having been ill-treated and uncared for by her <NAME> and her in-laws, being a highly sensitive and impressionate woman, she committed suicide out of sheer depression and frustration arising from an emotional upsurge."
Precedent	(P-3) "On the other hand this circumstance may have prompted her to commit suicide, for if a child was born to her, in view of her ill-treatment by her <NAME> and her in laws the child may not get proper upbringing".
Precedent	(P.96) I do not recollect any admission by Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the appellant in the course of his arguments about any cruelty or ill-treatment to <NAME> the part of the appellant or his parents.
Precedent	The evidence of P.W.3 is that during <NAME>'s second visit to Beed after her marria ge with the appellant she found <NAME> not quite happy and very much afraid of the appellant.
Precedent	The evidence of P.W.5 is that during <NAME>'s second visit to Beed, <NAME> complained to her about the appellant returning home late in the night and avoiding to have a talk with her and that <NAME> told her that she was afraid of the appellant and apprehended danger to her life at his hands.
Precedent	The further evidence of the P.W.5 is that during her third visit to Beed she inferred from <NAME>'s face a spell of fear.
Precedent	The evidence of P.W.6 is that during <NAME>'s second visit to Beed, <NAME> told her that the appellant used to leave the house early in the morning and return late at night under the pretext of work in his factory and that he was even reluctant to talk with her.
Precedent	P.W.6 has stated that during <NAME>'s third visit to Beed she was extremely uneasy.
Precedent	disturbed and under a spell of fear, that <NAME> told her the appellant did not relish even her question as to why he was not prepared to have a simple talk with her, and that  during her third visit to Beed, <NAME> expressed her unwillingness to go to Pune when <NAME> went to Beed on 2.6.1982 for taking her to Pune.
Precedent	To the same effect is the evidence of P.W s. 2 and 20 about how <NAME> looked in spirit and what she stated during her last two visits.
RatioOfTheDecision	My learned brother <NAME>, J. has rightly rejected the oral evidence of P.Ws.
RatioOfTheDecision	2, 3, 5, 6 and 20.
RatioOfTheDecision	He has extracted the relevant portions of the letters Exs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and 33 in his judgment and has observed at page 23 that one thing which may be conspicuously noticed in Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	30 is that <NAME> was prepared to take all the blame on herself rather than incriminating her <NAME> or his rents at page 24 that it was conceded by the learned Additional Solicitor General that the relevant portion of Ex.32 does not refer to any ill treatment of <NAME> by the appellant or his parents; and at page 30 that it can be easily inferred from Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	33 that <NAME> did not have any serious complaint against the appellant except that she was not getting proper a ttention which she deserved from him.
RatioOfTheDecision	These three letters do not establish that <NAME> made any complaint of any ill-treatment by the appellant or his parents.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my view, these three letters and the aforesaid oral evidence of P.Ws.
RatioOfTheDecision	2, 3 5 6 and 20 are inadmissible in evidence under s. 32(1) of the Evidence Act for reasons to be given elsewhere in my judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus there is no acceptable evidence on record to show that either the appellant or his parents ill-treat <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> also has not found any such ill treatment in its judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, what has been found by <ORG> in para 104 of its judgment is that the appellant treated <NAME> contemptuously.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even while setting out the case of the prosecution <ORG> has stated in para 7 of its judgment that it is alleged that the appellant started giving contemptuous treatment to <NAME> and in para 20 that the appellant has denied in his statement recorded under s.313 Cr.P.C .
RatioOfTheDecision	that <NAME> was being treated contemptuously.
RatioOfTheDecision	No question h as been put to the appellant in the course of his examination under s.313 Cr.P.C .
Argument	about any ill treatment of <NAME> by the appellant or his parents.
Argument	My learned brother <NAME>, J. has referred in pages 97 and 98 of his judgment to this <ORG>'s decisions in <NAME> v. State of Madhya Pradesh, <CITATION_491665> and <CITATION_520478> (3) and has observed at page 98 of his judgment that circumstance not put to the appellant in his examination under s. 313 Cr.PC.
Argument	have to be completely excluded from consideration in view of those decisions.
Argument	Therefore, since no question has been put to the appellant in this regard in the course of his examination under s 313 Cr.P.C .. even if there is any evidence about any ill-treatment of <NAME> by the appellant or his parents it has to be completely excluded from consideration.
Argument	I felt it necessary to say this in my judgment since I think that in fairness to the appellant it has to be done.
Argument	My learned brother <NAME>, J. has set out the case of the prosecution  in so far as it connects P,W.
Argument	37 with the appellant at page 3 of his judgment where he has stated that the positive case of the prosecution is that the appellant was not at all interested in <NAME> and had illicit intimacy with <NAME>.
Argument	On this point there is the evidence of P.Ws.
Argument	3, 5 and 6.
Argument	The evidence of P.W.3 is that during her second visit to Beed, <NAME> informed her that the appellant had a girl-friend by name <NAME> and that he introduced her (<NAME>) to her and told her that she should learn from <NAME> about how she should behave with him.
Argument	The evidence of P.W.5.
Argument	is that during her second visit to Beed, <NAME> told her that the appellant had an affair with a girl by name <NAME> and that she had seen <NAME>'s latter addressed to the appellant and an incomplete letter of the appellant addressed to that girl.
Argument	No such letters have been produced in evidence.
Argument	The evidence of P.W.6 is that during her second visit to Beed, <NAME> told her that the appellant had an affair with a g irl by name <NAME> and also introduced that girl to her in the <ORG>earl Hotel saying that she has complete command over him and that she (<NAME>) should take lessons from her (<NAME>) about how she should behave with him.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no other evidence regarding this alleged illicit intimacy between the appellant and <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This alleged illicit intimacy is totally denied not only by the appellant but also by <ORG>,W.37.
RatioOfTheDecision	The alleged incident in the <ORG>earl Hotel, according to the case of the prosecution took place on 17.3.1982.
RatioOfTheDecision	But there is no reference whatever to any such incident in any of the subsequent three letters of <NAME>, Exs.
Argument	30, 32 and 33, dated 25.4.1982, 8.5.1982 and 8.6.1982 respectively.
Argument	My learned brother <NAME>, J. has rightly rejected the oral evidence not only of <ORG>.Ws.
Argument	3, 5 and 6 but also of <ORG>.Ws.2 and 20 as untrustworthy at page 65 of his judgment.
Argument	However, at page 68 he has stated that it has been proved to some extent that the appellant had some sort of intimacy with <NAME>  and it had embittered the relationship between the appellant and <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my view, as already stated, the oral evidence of P.Ws.
RatioOfTheDecision	2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 about what <NAME> is alleged to have told them against the appellant and or his family, and even her letters Exs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and 33 are inadmissible in evidence under s.32(1) of the Evidence Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, there is absolutely no reliable or admissible evidence on record to show that the appellant had any intimacy with <NAME> (<NAME>).
RatioOfTheDecision	I am, therefore, unable to share the view of my learned brother <NAME>, J. that the prosecution has proved to some extent that the appellant had some sort of intimacy with <NAME> and it had embittered the relationship between the appellant and <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	I think that I am bound to say this in fairness to not only the appellant but also <NAME> who, on the date of her examination in the Court, was a 19 years old student and has stated in her evidence that she had known the appellant only as the President of <ORG> in the year  1979 when she was a member of that <ORG> for about 5 or 6 months in that year.
RatioOfTheDecision	My learned brother <NAME>, J. has referred to the oral evidence of P.Ws.2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 about <NAME>'s alleged complaint against the appellant and or his parents and also to the contents of <NAME> letters, Exs.
Precedent	30, 32 and  33.
Precedent	I have mentioned above the gist of that oral evidence and those three letters.
RulingByLowerCourt	My learned brother has held the said oral evidence and those three latters to be.
RulingByLowerCourt	admissible under s.32(1) of the Evidence Act while rejecting the oral evidence to those five witnesses as untrustworthy at pages 64 and 65 of his judgment, mainly on the ground that the oral evidence is quite inconsistent with the spirit and contents of those letters.
RulingByLowerCourt	He appears of have relied upon those three letters for two purposes, namely, rejecting the oral evidence of those five witnesses as untrustworthy and supporting the defence version that it may be a case of suicidal death.
RulingByLowerCourt	In my opinion the oral evidence of those five witnesses about w hat <NAME> is alleged to have told them against the appellant and or his parents and the three letters, are inadmissible under s. 32(1) of the Evidence Act, which reads thus:  "32.
Fact	Statements, written or verbal, of relevant facts made by a person who is dead, or who cannot be found, or who has become incapable of giving evidence, or whose attendance cannot be procured without an amount of delay or expense which, under the circumstances of the case, appears to the Court unreasonable, are themselves relevant facts in the following cases:-  (1) When the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that person's death comes into question".
Fact	The alleged oral statements of <NAME> to P,Ws.
Fact	2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 are said to have been made during her second and third visits to <NAME> in the end of February 1982 and end of May 1982 respectively before her death during the night of 11/12.6.1982.
Fact	She ha d written the letters, Exs.
Fact	33, 30 and 32 on 25.4.1982, 8.5.1982 and 8.6.1982 as stated earlier.
Fact	The oral evidence of these witnesses and these three letters are not as to the cause of <NAME>'s death or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in her death during that night.
RatioOfTheDecision	The position of law relating to the admissibility of evidence under s. 32(1) is well settled.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, therefore, not necessary to refer in detail to the decisions of this <ORG> or of <ORG> or our High <ORG>s.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would suffice to extract what the learned authors <NAME> and <NAME> have stated in their <ORG>, fourteenth edition and <NAME> and <NAME> in their <ORG> (1982) reprint).
RatioOfTheDecision	Those propositions are based mostly on decisions of courts for which reference has been given at the end.
Precedent	They are these:  <NAME> & <NAME>'s <ORG>, fourteenth edition.
Precedent	Page- 937 'Hearsay is excluded because it is considered not sufficiently trustworthy.
Precedent	It is rejected because it lacks th e sanction of the test applied to admissible evidence, namely, the oath and cross-examination.
Precedent	But where there are special circumstances which give a guarantee of trustworthiness to the testimony, it is admitted even though it comes from a second-hand source".
Precedent	Page-941 "What is relevant and admissible under clause (1) of this section (Section-32) is the statements actually made by the deceased as to the cause of his death or of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death".
Precedent	Page-945-946 "A statement must be as to the cause of the declarant's death or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death i.e.
Precedent	the cause and circumstances of the death and not previous or subsequent transaction, such independent transactions being excluded as not falling within the principle of necessary on which such evidence is received.
Precedent	When a person is not proved to have died as a result of injuries received in the incident in question, his statement cannot be said to be a stateme nt as to the cause of his death or as to any of the circumstances which resulted in his death.
Precedent	(AIR 1964 SC 900).
Precedent	Where there is nothing to show that the injury to which a statement in the dying declaration relates was the cause of the injured person's death or that the circumstances under which it was received resulted in his death, the statement is not admissible under this clause".
Precedent	(AIR 25 Bombay 45).
Precedent	Page-947 "Circumstances of the transaction resulting in his death; This clause refers to two kinds of statements:  (i) when the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death or (ii) when the statement is made by a person as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death.
Precedent	The words 'resulted in his death' do not mean 'caused his death'.
Precedent	The expression 'any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death' is wider in scope than the expression 'the cause of his death.
Precedent	The declarant need not actually have been apprehending death."
Precedent	(AIR 1964 M.P.
Precedent	30).
Precedent	Page-947 "The expression 'circumstances of the transaction' .
Precedent	occurring in s.32, clause (1) has been a source of perplexity to Courts faced with the question as to what matters are admissible within the meaning of the expression.
Precedent	The decision of their Lordships of <ORG> in <NAME> v. Emperor (LR 66 IA 66) sets the limits of the matters that could legitimately be brought within the purview of that expression.
Precedent	Lord <NAME>, who delivered the judgment of the <ORG>, has, however, made it abundantly clear that, except in special circumstances no circumstance could be a circumstance of the transaction if it is not confined to either the time actually occupied by the transaction resulting in death or the sense in which the actual transaction resulting in death took place.
Precedent	The special circumstance permitted to transgress the time factor is, for example, a case of prolonged poisoning, while the special circumstance permitted to transgress the distance factor is, for example, a case of decoying  with intent to murder.
Precedent	But the circumstances must be circumstances of the transaction and they must have some proximate relation to the actual occurrence."
Precedent	Page-948 "Circumstances of the transaction' is a phrase no doubt that conveys some limitations.
Precedent	It is not as broad as the analogous use in 'circumstantial evidence' which includes the evidence of all relevant factors.
Precedent	It is on the other hand narrower than 'res gestae'.
Precedent	Circumstances must have some proximate relation to the actual occurrence, though, as for instance, in the case of prolonged poisoning they may be related to dates at a considerable distance from the date of actual fatal dose".
Precedent	Page-948 "<ORG> in the case of <NAME> v. State of U.P.
Precedent	(1966 Criminal Appeal R. (SC) 281) has made similar observations that the circumstances must have some proximate, relation to the actual occurrence.
Precedent	and that general expressions indicating fear or suspicion, whether of a particular individual or otherwise and not directly to the occasion of death  will not be admissible".
Precedent	Page -949 "The clause does not permit the reception in evidence of all such statement of a dead person as may relate to matters having a bearing howsoever remote on the cause or the circumstances of his death.
Precedent	It is confined to only such statements as relate to matters so closely connected with the events which resulted in his death that may be said to relate to circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death.
Precedent	(LR 66 IA 66).
Precedent	'Circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death' means only such facts or series or facts which have a direct or organic relation to death.
Precedent	Hence statement made by the deceased long before the incident of murder is not admissible".
Precedent	(1974 CLJ (MP) 1200).
Precedent	Law of Evidence by <NAME> & <NAME> (1982 Reprint) Page 94 "Circumstances of the transaction; General expressions indicating fear or suspicion whether of a particular individual or otherwise and not directly related to the occasion of the death are not admissible" (LR 66 IA 66)(18 P art 234).
Precedent	Page 95 "Circumstances must have some proximate relation to the actual occurrence and must be of the transaction which resulted in the death of the declarant.
Precedent	The condition of the admissibility of the evidence is that the cause of the declarant's death comes into question.
Precedent	It is not necessary that statement must be made after the transaction has taken place or that the person making it must be near death or that the 'circumstance' can only include the acts done when and where the death was caused.
Precedent	-Dying declarations are admissible under this clause".
Precedent	The alleged oral statements of <NAME> and what she has stated in her letters, Exs 30, 32 and 33 may relate to matters perhaps having a very remote bearing on the cause or the circumstances of her death.
Precedent	Those circumstances do not have any proximate relation to the actual occurrence resulting in her death due to potassium cyanide poison, though, as for instance in the case of prolonged poisoning they may relate to dates considerably distant from the da te of the actual fatal dose.
Precedent	They are general impressions of Manju indicating fear or suspicion.
Precedent	whether of a particular individual or otherwise and not directly related to the occasion of her death.
Precedent	It is not the case of the prosecution that the present case is one of prolonged poisoning.
Precedent	Since it is stated by the learned authors <NAME> and <NAME> in their tratise at page 947 that the decision of their Lordships of <ORG> in <CITATION_516808> (1) sets the limit of the matters that could legitimately be brought within the purview of the expression 'circumstances of the transaction and that decision is referred to in several other decisions of our courts, it would be necessary to extract the relevant passage in this judgment.
Precedent	The learned Lords have observed at pages 75 and 76 thus:  "A variety of questions has been mooted in the Indian courts as to the effect of this section.
Precedent	It has been suggested that the statement must be made after the transaction has taken place, that the person making it m ust be at any rate near death, that the "circumstances" can only include the acts done when and where the death was caused.
Precedent	Their Lordships are of opinion that the natural meaning of the words used does not convey any of these limitations.
Precedent	The statement may be made before the cause of death has arisen, or before the deceased has any reason to anticipate being killed.
Precedent	The circumstances must be circumstances of the transaction: general expression indicating fear of suspicion whether of a particular individual or otherwise and not directly related to the occasion of the death will not be admissible.
Precedent	But statements made by the deceased that he was proceeding to the spot where he was in fact killed, or as to his reasons for so proceeding, or that he was going to meet a particular person, or that he had been invited by such person to meet him would each of them be circumstances of the transaction, and would be so whether the person was unknown, or was not the person accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a statement might indeed be exculap atory of the person accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	"Circumstances of the transaction" is a phrase no doubt that conveys some limitations.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not as broad as the analogous use in "circumstantial evidence" which includes evidence of all relevant facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is on the other hand narrower than "re gestae" Circumstances most have some proximate relation to the actual occurrence: though, as for instance in a case of prolonged poisoning, they may be related to dates at a considerable distance from the date of the actual fatal dose."
RatioOfTheDecision	I am, therefore of the opinion that the oral evidence of these witnesses, P.Ws.
RatioOfTheDecision	2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 about what <NAME> is alleged to have told them against the appellant and or his parents and what the has stated in her letters, Exs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30 32 and 33, are inadmissible in evidence under s.32(1) of the Evidence Act and cannot be looked into for any purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	At this stage.
RatioOfTheDecision	it may be stated that Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the said oral evidence of those five witnesses is inadmi ssible under s. 32(1) though at first he sought to rely upon the letters, Exs 30, 32 and 33 which seem to lend support to the defence theory that it may be a case of suicide, he ultimately conceded that what applies to the relative oral evidence of P.Ws.
RatioOfTheDecision	2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 would equally apply to the letters, Exs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and 33 and that they too would be inadmissible in evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Additional Solicitor General who had strongly relied upon the said oral evidence of these five witnesses and the letters, Exs.
RatioOfTheDecision	30, 32 and 33 at first proceeded in the end of his arguments on the basis that they are inadmissible in evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances, I am firmly of the opinion that the oral evidence of P.Ws.
RatioOfTheDecision	2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 about what <NAME> is alleged to have told them against the appellant and or his parents as well as the letters, Exs.
RatioOfTheDecision	32, 32 and 33 are inadmissible in evidence under s. 32(1) of the Evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	About Dr. <NAME> (P.W.
RatioOfTheDecision	33) who conducted autopsy on the body of <NAME> what my learned brother <NAME>  <NAME>, <NAME> has said in his judgment is this:  "In column 5 of postmortem notes Dr. <NAME> has clearly written 'can be a case of suicidal death' which indicates that in the absence of the report of the Chemical Examiner he was of the opinion that it could have been a case of suicide.
RatioOfTheDecision	In his evidence <ORG> has stated that in Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	128 in column No.
RatioOfTheDecision	5 the contents scored out read 'time since the death' and since it was repeated in the next line he scored out the words in the second line.
RatioOfTheDecision	Despite persistent cross-examination the Doctor appears to have stuck to his stand.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot, therefore, be gainsaid that this matter was of vital importance and expected <ORG> to have given serious attention to this aspect which goes in favour of the accused....
RatioOfTheDecision	In the original while filling up the said column the Doctor appears to have scored out something.
RatioOfTheDecision	The filled up entry appears thus:-'mouth is closed with tip (something scored out) seen caught between the teeth.
RatioOfTheDecision	But in the carbon copy of the report which was sen t to <ORG> (Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	132 he has written 'caught between the teeth' in ink; but in the original there is something else.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is fortified by the fact that the copy of the report actually sent to <ORG> does not contain any interpolation against the 'said column where the filled up entry reads 'inside mouth'..
RatioOfTheDecision	These circumstances show that Dr. <NAME> (P.W.33) tried to introduce some additional facts regarding the position of the tongue .
RatioOfTheDecision	.
RatioOfTheDecision	.
RatioOfTheDecision	This, however, throws a cloud of doubt on the correctness or otherwise of the actual reports written by him and the one that was sent to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is obvious that in the carbon copy which was retained by the Doctor the entries must have been made after the copy was sent to <ORG>".
RatioOfTheDecision	I entirely agree with these findings of my learned brother <NAME>, J.
RatioOfTheDecision	But I am unable to share his view that these "circumstances are not of much consequence the opinion of the Doctor was that <NAME> died by forcible administration of  potassium cyanide or by the process of mechanical suffocation and that this aspect need not detain the Court any further because <ORG> has not accepted the case of mechanical suffocation" and that though a number of comments were made on behalf of the appellant about Dr. <NAME>'s integrity and incorrect report he does not find any substance in those contentions subject to what he has stated about him.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact that <ORG> has rejected the case of the prosecution based on Dr. <NAME>'s report and evidence that it was also a case of mechanical suffocation is not one that could be taken into consideration as a mitigating circumstance in judging the conduct of the Doctor who had conducted the autopsy in a case of suspicious death.
Precedent	The fact that he had reserved his opinion about the cause of death and had then noted in his report that the tongue was inside the mouth but has interpolated the words 'mouth is closed with tip (something scored out) seen caught between the teeth' and 'caught between  the teeth' only after receipt of the Chemical Examiner's report to support the view that it was also a case of mechanial suffocation, is not a mitigating circumstance in favour of <NAME> W. 33 The Doctor had scored out the words 'can be a case of suicidal death' and has persisted in his reply that he had scored out only the words 'time since the death' which he claims to have written twice, which explanation has been rightly rejected by my learned brother <NAME>.
Precedent	J.
Precedent	The conduct of the Doctor in making these later inter polations and alterations in the records of the postmortem examination in the case of suspicious death in which the appellant has been sentenced to death by the two courts below, deserves serious condemnation.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Doctor has tampered with material evidence in the case of alleged murder, may be at the instance of somebody else, ignoring the probable consequences of his act.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances, I am of the opinion that Dr. <NAME> (P.W.33) is a person who should not be entrusted with any seri ous and responsible work such as conducting autopsy in the public interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this case the appellant would have gone to gallows on the basis of the evidence of P.W.33 as he would have the court to believe it, and theo ther evidence, if they had been accepted, but they have been rightly discarded by my learned brother <NAME> J. as unworthy of acceptance against the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	I agree with my learned brother <NAME> J. that <ORG> has clearly misdirected itself on many points in appreciating the evidence and has thus committed a gross error of law.
Precedent	I feel that something has to be stated in the judgment in this case about the way the Investigating officer and the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Pune who had tried the case had gone about a their business.
Precedent	Charge No.
Fact	3 is against the third accused for instigating <NAME> (P.W.
Fact	30) to give false information to the police regarding the offence of murder namely, that the appellant found <NAME> dead when he tried to wake her up at 5.30 a.m. o n 12.6.1982.
Fact	It is the case of the prosecution itself that <ORG> informed the police accordingly at 7 or 7.15 a.m. on that day after receipt of telephonic instructions from the third accused at 6.30 a.m. though he had himself seen the dead body of <NAME> earlier in the appellant's flat where he was taken by the third accused who had gone to his flat at about 4 or 4.15 a.m. and informed him that <NAME> was dead, and he (<ORG>) left the appellant's flat a little later at about 5 or 5.15 a. m. after telling Dr. <NAME> (P.W.
Fact	34) that he was going to report to the police.
RulingByLowerCourt	Thus, it would appear that the case of the prosecution itself is that P.W.
RulingByLowerCourt	30 is the principal offender as regards giving false information to the police about the death of <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	Yet the Investigating officer had not filed any charge-sheet against P.W.
RulingByLowerCourt	30 but has conveniently treated him as a prosecution witness.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Additional Sessions Judge, Pune appears to have exercised no control over the evidence that was tendered in this case and to have b een oblivious of the scope of the examination of the accused under.
Precedent	s. 313 Cr.
Precedent	P.C.
Fact	This is reflected by some of the questions put to the appellant.
Fact	Question No.
Fact	24 relates to P.W.
Fact	20 not maintaining good health and falling ill now and then.
Fact	Question No.
Fact	25 relates to P.W.
Fact	22 being a patient of high blood pressure and having suffered a stroke of paralysis 7 years earlier.
Fact	Question No.
Fact	30 relates to a reception held at Pune on 13.2.1982 in connection with the appellant's marriage with <NAME>.
Fact	Question No.
Fact	32 relates to P.W.
Fact	6 asking the appellant's <NAME> <NAME> for permission to take <NAME> to Beed with her when the party from <ORG> side started from Pune for Beed on 14.2.1982.
Fact	Question No.
Precedent	115 relates to P.W.30 indulging in criminal acts of rowdyism, tax evasion etc, and being known as a contact-man of the police.
Precedent	S. 313 Cr.
Precedent	P. C.  195  lays down that in every inquiry or trial for the purpose of enabling the accused personally to explain any circumstance appearing in the evidence against him the <ORG> m ay at any stage, without previously warning the accused, put such questions to him as the court considers necessary and shall, after the witnesses for the prosecution have been examined and before he is called for his defence, question him generally on the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is clear that the evidence on the basis of which the above questions have been put to the appellant is wholly irrelevant and that those questions do not relate to any circumstance appearing in the evidence against the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Additional Sessions Judge was bound to exercise control over the evidence being tendered in his court and to know the scope of the examination of the accused under s. 313 Cr.
RatioOfTheDecision	P. C.  In the end, as I said earlier, I agree with my learned brother <NAME> J. that the appeal has to be allowed.
RatioOfTheDecision	Accordingly I allow the appeal and set aside the conviction and sentence awarded to the appellant and direct him to be set at liberty forthwith.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> J. I have the advantage of having read the judgments pre pared by my learned brothers <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, <NAME> I agree with the order proposed that the appeal should be allowed and the judgments of the courts below should be set aside and the appellant <NAME> be acquitted of the charges framed against him and he should be released forth with.
RatioOfTheDecision	I do so with some hesitation and good deal of anxiety, because that would be interfering with the concurrent findings by two courts below on a pure appreciation of facts.
RatioOfTheDecision	The facts and circumstances have been exhaustively and very minutely detailed in the judgment of my learned Brother <NAME>, <NAME> Those have also been set out to certain extent by my Brother <NAME>, <NAME> It will therefore serve no useful purpose to repeat these here.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is necessary, however, for me to make the following observations.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a case of circumstantial evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also undisputed that the deceased died of potassium cyanide on the night of 11th and 12th June.
RatioOfTheDecision	13th June was the date fixed for the betrothal of the  sister of the accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no evidence that the accused was in any way hostile or inamicable towards his sister.
RatioOfTheDecision	The deceased had a very sensitive mind and occasionally had suffered from mental depression partly due to the fact of adjusting in a new family and partly due to her peculiar mental make up but mainly perhaps due to the family set up of the accused <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no direct evidence of administering poison.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no evidence either way that either the deceased or the accused had in her or his possession any potassium cyanide.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances my learned brothers, in view of the entire evidence and the letters and other circumstances, have come to the conclusion that the guilt of the accused has not proved beyond all reasonable doubt.
RulingByLowerCourt	As I have mentioned before, I have read the two judgments by my two learned brothers and on some points namely, four points mentioned in the judgment prepared by my Brother <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	J., he has expressed views different from those expressed by <NAME>  Ali, J. and these are:-  (1) ill-treatment of <NAME> by the appellant; (2) intimacy of the appellant with <NAME> (P.W.37); (3) admissibility of <NAME>'s letters Exs.
RulingByLowerCourt	30, 32 and 33 and the oral evidence of P.Ws.
RulingByLowerCourt	2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 about the alleged complaints made by <NAME> against the appellant under s.32(1) of the Evidence Act ; and (4) conduct of Dr. <NAME> (P.W.33) who had conducted autopsy on the body of <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	On the three points, namely ill-treatment of <NAME> by the appellant, intimacy of the appellant with <NAME> (P.W.37) and the conduct of Dr. <NAME> (P.W.33) who had conducted autopsy on the body of <NAME>, I would prefer the views expressed by my learned brother <NAME> J.
Precedent	On the question of admissibility of <NAME>'s letters Exs.
Precedent	30, 32 and 33 and the oral evidence of P.Ws.
Precedent	2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 about the alleged complaints made by <NAME> against the accused under section 32(1) of the Evidence Act, my learned brother <NAME> J. has observed about section 32(1) as follows:-  "The test of proximity cann ot be too literally construed and practically reduced to a cut-end-dried formula of universal application so as to be confined in a straitjacket.
Precedent	Distance of time would depend or vary with the circumstances of each case.
Precedent	For instance, where death is a logical culmination of a continuous drama long in process and is, as it were, a finale of the story, the statement regarding each step directly connected with the end of the drama would be admissible because the entire statement would have to be read as an organic whole and not torn from the context.
Precedent	Sometimes statements relevant to or furnishing an immediate motive may also be admissible as being a part of the transaction of death.
Precedent	It is manifest that all these statements come to light only after the death of the deceased who speaks from death.
Precedent	For instance, where the death takes place within a very short time of the marriage or the distance of time is not spread over more than 3-4 months the statement may be admissible under s.32."
Precedent	(Emphasis by me).
RatioOfTheDecision	I would,  however, like to state here that this approach should be taken with great deal of caution and care and though I respectfully agree with <NAME> the test of proximity cannot and should not be too literally construed and be reduced practically to a cut-and-dried formula of universal application but it must be emphasised that whenever it is extended beyond the immediate, it should be the exception and must be done with very great caution and care.
RatioOfTheDecision	As a general proposition, it cannot be laid down for all purposes that for instance where a death takes place within a short time of marriage and the distance of time is not spread over three or four months, the statement would be admissible under section 32 of the Evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is always not so and cannot be so.
RatioOfTheDecision	In very exceptional circumstances like the circumstances in the present case such statements my be admissible and that too not for proving the positive fact but as an indication of a negative fact, namely raising some doubt about the guilt of t he accused as in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	For the purpose of expressing my respectful concurrence with the views of Justice <NAME>, it is not necessary for me to agree and I do not do so with all the detailed inferences that my learned brother has chosen to draw in respect of the several matters from the exhibits in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am also with respect not prepared to draw all the inferences that my learned brother has chosen to draw in the paragraph beginning with the expression "the careful perusal of this letter revealed the following features".
Precedent	This my learned brother was speaking in respect of Ex.
Precedent	33.
Precedent	I however, respectfully agree with my learned brother when he says that a close analysis and ading of the letter namely Ex.
Precedent	33 clearly indicates:  198  (a) that the deceased was extremely depressed.
Precedent	(b) that there was a clear tendency resulting from her psychotic nature to end her life or commit suicide.
Precedent	Similarly I have some hesitation about the English rendering of Ex.
Precedent	32 which is letter dated 8th June, 1982 which h as been set out by my learned brother and which has been set out in his judgment which contains the expression "I do not know why there is such a dirty atmosphere in the house?"
Precedent	As the original letter was read out in Court and we had the advantage of that, I am inclined to take the view that the correct and the more expressive expression would be "I do not know why there is such a foul atmosphere in the house?"
Precedent	Read in that light and in the context of other factors, this letter causes some anxiety.
Precedent	It the deceased was sensing foul atmosphere, why was it?
Precedent	But this again is only a doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	It does not prove the guilt of the accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the fact that this is a case of circumstantial evidence and further in view of the fact that two views are possible on the evidence on record, one pointing to the guilt of the accused and the other his innocence, the accused is entitled to have the benefit of one which is favourable to him.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that view of the matter I agree with my learned brothers that the guilt of the a ccused has not been proved beyond all reasonable doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the premises as indicated before, I agree with the order proposed.
Precedent	S.R.
Precedent	Appeal allowed.
