Fact	PETITIONER: <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: THE SUPERINTENDENT, DISTRICT JAIL,<NAME>, AND ANOTHER(and DATE OF JUDGMENT: 31/10/1957 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>CJ) BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME>CJ) AIYYAR, T.L.
Fact	VENKATARAMA <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, VIVIAN CITATION: 1958 AIR 119 1958 SCR 822 ACT: Sea <ORG>-Award of confiscation and Penalty-If a bar to prosecution for criminal conspiracy-Sea <ORG> Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878), ss.
Fact	167(8), 186-Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860),s.120B-Constitution of India, Art.
Fact	20(2).
Fact	HEADNOTE: The petitioners were found guilty under s. 167(8) of the Sea <ORG> Act and the currency and other goods recovered from their possession were confiscated and heavy personal penalties imposed on them by the Collector of <ORG>.
Fact	Complaints were thereafter lodged against them by the <ORG> authorities before the Additional District Magistrate under s. 120B of the Indian Penal Code, read with S. 23 / 23B of the Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, 1947, and s. i67(8i) of  the Sea Customs Act, as also under other sections of the two latter Acts.
Fact	The Magistrate granted bail but they could not furnish the requisite security and were, therefore, kept in judicial custody.
Fact	By two petitions under Art.
Fact	32 Of the Constitution they prayed for the issue of writs of certiorari and/or prohibition for quashing the proceedings pending against them in <ORG> as also for the issue of writs of habeas corpus.
Fact	It was contended on their behalf that in view of the provision of Art.
Fact	20(2) Of the Constitution they could not be prosecuted and punished twice over for the same offence and the proceedings pending before the Additional Magistrate violated the protection afforded by Art.
Fact	20(2) of the Constitution.
RulingByLowerCourt	Held, that the contention was without substance and the petitions must be dismissed.
RulingByLowerCourt	The fact that in imposing confiscation and penalties under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act, <ORG> acts 823 judicially is not decisive and does not attract the protection o f Art.
RulingByLowerCourt	20(2) of the Constitution.
RulingByLowerCourt	Section 186 of the Act does not prevent the infliction of any other punishment to which the person concerned may be liable under any other law.
Fact	<NAME> v. <NAME> of <ORG>, Petition NO.
Fact	438 Of 955, decided on May 16, 1957, referred to.
Fact	Criminal conspiracy is an offence under s. 120B of the Indian Penal Code but not so under the Sea <ORG> Act, and the petitioners were not and could not be charged with it before the Collector of <ORG>.
Fact	It is an offence separate from the crime which it may have for its object and is complete even before the crime is attempted or completed, and even when attempted or completed, it forms no ingredient of such crime.
Fact	United States v. <NAME>, (1915) 238 U.S. 78, referred to.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos.
Fact	126 and 127 of 1957.
Fact	(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of Fundamental Rights).
Fact	<NAME> and <NAME>, for the petitioners.
Fact	<NAME>, Attorney-General for India, <NAME> a nd <NAME>, for the respondents.
Fact	1957.
Fact	October 31.
Fact	The following Order of the Court was delivered by DAS C.J.--In their respective separate petitions, the petitioners pray (1) for an order, direction or writ in the nature of certiorari and/or prohibition calling for the records in the case of the Assistant Collector of Land Customs & Central Excise, Amritsar, against the two petitioners and one <NAME>, on the file of the Additional District Magistrate of Amritsar and for quashing the proceedings therein, and (2) for an order, direction or writ in the nature of habeas corpus for the production before this Court of the persons of the petitioners to be dealt with according to law.
Fact	The facts appearing from the records are shortly as follows: The petitioner, <NAME>, purchased a car No.
Fact	C.D.
Fact	75 TT 6587 from an officer of <ORG> in Paris.
Fact	This car was sold by the petitioner <NAME> to the petitioner <NAME>, in May 1957.
Fact	On transfer, the car was registered in the name of the petition er <NAME> on May 18, 1957.
Fact	Both the petitioners thereafter booked their passages through <ORG> from Geneva to Bombay by s.s. <ORG>.
Fact	The car was also shipped by the same vessel.
Fact	The two petitioners disembarked at Karachi Ion June 11, 1957, and after a brief halt at Karachi, they left together by plane for Bombay and reached Bombay on the same day.
Fact	petitioners stayed together at the Ambassador Hotel at Bombay from June 11, 1957, to the afternoon of June 19, 1957.
Fact	On the last mentioned date both of them left Bombay by plane and reached Delhi the same evening.
Fact	They occupied room No.
Fact	I at <ORG> and stayed there from June 19, to June 29, 1957.
Fact	After the car, which had been booked by rail from Bombay to Delhi, had arrived in Delhi, the two petitioners left Delhi and travelled together in the car from Delhi to Amritsar on June 22, 1957, and after staying the night there, they arrived at Attari Road Land <ORG> Station on their way out to Pakistan on June 23, 1957.
Fact	The <ORG> officers th ere required the petitioners to declare in Baggage Declaration Forms supplied to them the articles which they had in their possession, including any goods which were subject to Export Trade Control and/or Foreign Exchange restrictions and/or were dutiable.
Fact	Each of the petitioners completed his Baggage Declaration Form and handed it over to the <ORG> authorities duly signed by him.
Fact	On that very day the persons of each of the petitioners were also searched and certain currency and movable property which had not been included in the baggage declaration were recovered.
Fact	Amongst other things, a pocket radio and a time-piece were recovered from the petitioner <NAME> and a pistol of 22 bore with 48 live cartridges of the same bore was recovered from the person of the petitioner <NAME>.
Fact	Both the petitioners were put under arrest on the same day, namely, June 23, 1957.
Fact	On June 30,1957, the petitioners were interrogated and the car was thoroughly searched.
Fact	As a result of such intensive search and minute inspection, a secr et chamber above the petrol tank was discovered.
Fact	On opening the secret chamber, Indian currency to the tune of Rs.
Fact	8,50,000 and U.S. dollars amounting to 10,000 were discovered in the concealed recess and seized by the police.
Fact	On July 7, 1957, notice was issued to the petitioner <NAME> under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act to show cause before the Collector why under that section penalty should not be imposed on, him and why the seized articles should not be confiscated.
Fact	A similar notice was served on the petitioner <NAME>, on July 9, 1957.
Fact	The petitioners made representations in writing and were also heard in person.
Fact	On July 24, 1957, the Collector of <ORG> made an order for the confiscation of the currency and also of the motor car with an option to the petitioner <NAME> to redeem the car on payment of Rs.
Fact	50,000 and also ordered confiscation of articles other than the currency recovered from the car subject to redemption on payment of Rs.
Fact	100.
Fact	The Collector was also satisfied that each  of the two petitioners was equally guilty of an offence under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act and imposed a personal penalty of Rs.
Fact	25,00,000 on each of the petitioners, to be paid within two months from the date of the order or such extended period as the adjudicating officer might allow.
Fact	On August 12, 1957, the Assistant Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Amritsar, lodged a complaint against the two petitioners and one <NAME> of Bombay before the Additional District Magistrate, Amritsar, under s. 23 read with s. 8 of the Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, 1947 and s. 167 (81) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, as amended by the Sea Customs (Amendment) Act, 1955.
Fact	Subsequently, a fresh complaint was filed by the same Assistant Collector of Land Customs and Central Excise against the two petitioners and the said <NAME> before the Additional District Magistrate, Amritsar,' under s. 23 read with s. 8 of the Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, 1947, and s. 167(81) of the Sea Customs Act and s' 120-B of  the Indian Penal Code , read with S. 23 / 23-B , Foreign Exchange Regulations Act and s. 167(81) , Sea Customs Act, 1878.
Fact	A case was also started against the petitioner <NAME> under the Indian Arms Act for being in possession of the pistol and the cartridges in contravention of the provisions of s. 20 of that Act.
Fact	He was ordered to be let out on bail in the sum of Rs.
Fact	10,000 with one surety in the Arms Act case, which he furnished.
Fact	The trial of the Arms Act case has concluded in the Court of the Additional District Magistrate but orders are pending.
Fact	The petitioners, <NAME> and <NAME>, were directed to be released on bail in the sum of rupees five lakhs and ten lakhs respectively, which were finally reduced by <ORG> to rupees two lakhs and five lakhs respectively.
Fact	Neither of the petitioners could furnish the requisite security and they have, therefore, been in judicial custody.
Fact	They have now come forward with these applications for the reliefs already mentioned.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their main contention, urged before us, is t hat they have been deprived of their liberty otherwise than in accordance with procedure established by law.
RatioOfTheDecision	In ordinary circumstances the production of the order or warrant for the apprehension and detention of an undertrial prisoner would be a good return to a writ of habeas corpus.
RulingByLowerCourt	But the petitioners contend that in this case there has been a violation of their fundamental right under Art.
RulingByLowerCourt	20(2) of the Constitution.
RulingByLowerCourt	Relying on the observations in the decision of <ORG> in Assistant Collector v. <NAME> (1), and in the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1416438> (2), it is contended that in making the order of confiscation and penalty under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act, the Collector was acting judicially and therefore the petitioners have already been proceeded with and punished for the offence of importation and attempted exportation of goods, the importation or exoprtation of which is for the time being prohibited or restricted by or under chap.
RulingByLowerCourt	IV of the Sea Customs  Act, and consequently they cannot again be prosecuted and punished for the same offence.
RulingByLowerCourt	The argument is that the pending proceedings before the Additional District Magistrate offend against the protection given to the petitioners by Art.
RulingByLowerCourt	20(2) of Constitution.
Precedent	That in imposing confiscation and penalties the Collector acts judicially has been held by this Court in its judgment (I) (1952) 56 C.W.N.
Precedent	452.
Precedent	(2) A.I.R.
Precedent	957 Mad.
Precedent	496.
Precedent	827  pronounced on May 16, 1957, in <CITATION_1499936> (1).
Precedent	No question has been raised as to the maximum amount of penalty that can be imposed under s. 167(8) and we are not called upon to express any opinion on that point.
Precedent	But the fact that the Collector of Customs acted judicially is not decisive and does not necessarily attract the protection guaranteed by Art.
Precedent	20(2) and the question still remains whether the petitioners' case comes within the provisions of Art.
Precedent	20(2).
Precedent	That article protects a person from being ,prosecuted and punished for the same offence more than once".
Fact	The ques tion has to be answered as to whether the petitioners had previously been prosecuted and punished for the same offence for which they are now being prosecuted before the Additional District Magistrate.
Fact	The proceedings before the <ORG> authorities were under s. 167(8) of the Sea <ORG> Act.
Fact	Under s. 186 of that Act, the award of any confiscation, penalty or increased rate of duty under that Act by an officer of <ORG> does not prevent the infliction of any punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under any other law.
Fact	The offences with which the petitioners are now charged include an offence under s. 120B , Indian Penal Code .
Fact	Criminal conspiracy is an offence created and made punishable by the Indian Penal Code .
Fact	It is not an offence under the Sea <ORG> Act.
Fact	The offence of a conspiracy to commit a crime is a different offence from the crime that is the object of the conspiracy because the conspiracy precedes the commission of the crime and is complete before the crime is attempted or com pleted, equally the crime attempted or completed does not require the element of conspiracy as one of its ingredients.
Fact	They are, therefore, quite separate offences.
Fact	This is also the view expressed by <ORG> in United States v. <NAME> (2).
Fact	The offence of criminal conspiracy was not the subject matter of the proceedings before the Collector of Customs and therefore it cannot be said that the petitioners have already been prosecuted and punished for the "same offence".
Precedent	(1) Petition NO.
Precedent	438 Of 1955.
Precedent	105  (2) (1915) 238 U.S. 78.
Fact	828  It is true that the Collector of Customs has used the words " punishment " and " conspiracy ", but those words were used in order to bring out that each of the two petitioners was guilty of the offence under s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act.
Fact	The petitioners were not and could never be charged with criminal conspiracy before the Collector of Customs and therefore Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	20(2) cannot be invoked.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this view of the matter it is not necessary for us, on the p resent occasion, to refer to the case of <CITATION_1815080> (1) and to discuss whether the words used in Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	20 do or do not contemplate only proceedings of the nature of criminal proceedings before a court of law or a judicial tribunal as ordinarily understood.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, Art.
RatioOfTheDecision	20 has no application to the facts of the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	No other points having been urged before us, these applications must be dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	Applications dismissed.
