Fact	PETITIONER: PREM <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: SURENDER GANDOTRA AND ORS.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT27/08/1991 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> (J) BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> (J) <NAME>, L.M.
Fact	(J) CITATION: 1991 AIR 2254 1991 SCR (3) 782 1991 SCC Supl.
Fact	(2) 215 JT 1991 (3) 570 1991 SCALE (2)459 ACT: Delhi Co-Operative Societies Act , 1972.
Fact	Sections 59 and 60-Dispute relating to irregularities in purchase of build- ing materials by the past Managing <ORG>--Whether falls within the ambit of Section 60 .
Fact	HEADNOTE: On a complaint made by the Managing <ORG> of the 6th respondent <ORG>, the third respond- ent, Registrar, <ORG>, referred the dispute relating to irregularities in the purchase of building material for construction of flats for members of society by the past Managing <ORG>, of which the appellant was the President at the relevant time, to arbitration.
Fact	The first respondent-Arbitrator, gave his ex-parte award, on the failure of the appellant and another person to file their  reply to the claim of the claimant society, and directed the appellant and the other person to pay the society certain sum with interest thereon.
Fact	The appellant challenged the award before second re- spondent, <ORG>, which dismissed the same holding that the Arbitrator's act of proceeding ex-parte was justified and that the appeal had no merit.
Fact	The appellant's writ petition was also dismissed by <ORG>.
Precedent	In the appeal before this Court on behalf of the appel- lant it was contended that it was Sec.
Precedent	59 dealing with surchage which was applicable to the instant case and not Section 60 , which pertained to settlement of disputes by arbitration since the dispute in question was one which could not be referred to arbitration in terms of Section 60 of the Act.
Precedent	On behalf of the contesting respondents it was submitted that it was Section 60 , which was applicable and not Section 59 .
Precedent	Dismissing the appeal, this Court, HELD: 1.1 Sub-Section (1) of Section 60 of the Delhi Co- operative 783  Societies Act , 1972 indicates the true scope of the Section 60 , while sub-section (2) is merely illustrative, and not exhaustive.
Precedent	Clause (c) of sub-section (1) expressly provides that if any dispute touching the constitution/management or the business of the cooperative society arises between the society or its committee and any past committee.
Fact	any offi- cer, agent or employee or any past officer of the society, the dispute should be referred to the arbitration.
Fact	[787H, 788A-B, D] 1.2 In the instant case, the dispute, viz.
Fact	irregulari- ties in the purchase of building material for construction of flats for the members of the <ORG> by the previous Managing Committee, touches the management of the <ORG> and fails within the ambit of Section 60 of the Act.
Fact	The third respondent, Registrar, <ORG> was, therefore, right in referring the dispute to arbitration.
RulingByLowerCourt	[789D- <CITATION_971550> ..  1 SCR 186, followed.
RulingByLowerCourt	<CITATION_1775026> , AIR 1976 63 Delhi 239, disapproved.
RulingByLowerCourt	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JU RISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.
RulingByLowerCourt	3237 of 1991.
RulingByLowerCourt	From the Judgment and Order dated 10.10.1990 of <ORG> in C.W.
RulingByLowerCourt	No.
Precedent	3204 of 1990.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, Advs.
Precedent	for the Appellant.
Precedent	Dr. <NAME>, and <NAME> for the Respondents.
Precedent	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <ORG>, J.
Fact	Leave is granted.
Fact	Respondent No.
Fact	6, <ORG>, was formed in 1979 for providing houses to its 130 members including the appellant <NAME>.
Fact	The appellant was earlier the Secretary and then the President of the <ORG> till 1985, by which time substantial con- struction had been completed.
Fact	The members were allotted three-room flat for a sum of Rs.
Fact	1, 10,000.
Fact	In August, 1985, Respondent No.
Fact	3, Registrar, <ORG>, appointed an Administrator to look into the affairs of the <ORG> since the appel.
Fact	lant and other office bearers had held the office for more than two terms.
Fact	The controversy giving rise to this proceeding relates to the  alleged discrepancy re- garding purchase of some building material in January, 1984, for the construction of flats for members of the <ORG> in Vikas Puri at New Delhi.
Fact	<ORG> of the <ORG> formed in September, 1986, complained to <ORG> alleging irregularities by the previous Managing Committee of which the appellant was the President.
Fact	This matter was referred to arbitration by order dated 12.10.1989 passed by <ORG>, <ORG>.
Fact	Respondent No, 1, <NAME> was appointed the Arbitrator, who gave his AWard on 1.5.
Fact	1990.
Fact	The relevant portion of the Award is as under:  "It is also interesting to discuss the conduct of these two respondents of this case, <NAME> and <NAME> as they have been moving applications after applications in this court raising vicious and frivolous grounds just to delay the delivery of justice in this case.
Fact	The miscellaneous applications relating to  the dispute of juris- diction of this court and then that since criminal proceedings are pending with <ORG>, proceedings in this Court should be kept pending till final decision in the criminal proceedings.
Fact	All these applications were properly attended, scrutinized and dis- posed of legally.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also interesting that despite number of chances/opportunities having been given to the respondent to file reply to the main points of the claimant society, the defendants <NAME> and <NAME> did not file any reply and followed delaying and dilatory tactics and to defeat the ends of justice.
Argument	Even today 30th April, 1990, fixed for hearing none came from the side of S/Shir Poonam Dhand, <NAME> either presonally or through Advocate.
Argument	The advocate of the claimant society <NAME> argued that ex parte proceedings may be initiated against the respondents who have absented from these proceedings.
Fact	In view of these cricumstances, and the conduct of 'respondents in this case 0right from the  very inception of this case, there is no other alternative left for me but to proceed ex parte against the respondents <NAME> and <NAME>.
Fact	Ex parte award is announced with the following details; .
Fact	785  Principal amount to be paid by the respon-  dents to <ORG>, Vikas Puri, New Delhi.
Fact	Rs-1,46,2 10.20 Interest at the rate of 18% from 17.4.1985 till all the dues are cleared by the respond-  ents.
Fact	Cost allowed Rs.5,000.00  With the above observations, ex parte award is given against the respondents <NAME>, P.3, <NAME> who are jointly and severally responsible to pay the Jupiter Cooperative Group Housing Society Limited, Vikas Puri, New Delhi, principal amount of Rs.
Fact	1,46,210.00 NPS plus 18% interest from 17.4.1985 till all the dues are cleared and costs of Rs.5,000."
Fact	, The appellant then filed an appeal under section 76 of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Delhi Act ') in <ORG> (Res pondent No.
Fact	2) challenging the Award dated 1.5.1990.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> held that the Arbitrator's act of proceeding ex parte against the appellant is justified and taking the view that the appeal had no merit, dismissed the same.
RulingByLowerCourt	The appellant then filed a writ petition in <ORG> challenging the Award and dismissal of his appeal by the <ORG> on 3.7.1990.
RulingByLowerCourt	The said writ petition has been dismissed by <ORG> on 10.10.1990.
Argument	It is in these circumstances that the appellant assails the Award, dismiss- al of the appeal and then the .writ petition.
Argument	The argument of <NAME>, learned counsel for the appellant, is that it is section 59 and not section 60 of the Delhi Act which applies to the present case.
Argument	In reply, Dr. <NAME> on behalf of the contesting respondents contended that section 60 relating to arbitration and not section 59 pertaining to surcharge applies to the present case.
Statute	Sections59 and 60 of the Delhi Act , insofar as relevant, are quoted hereinbelow:-  "59.
Statute	Surcharge-(1) If in the cours e of an audit, inquiry, inspection or the wind- ing up of a cooperative society, it is found that any person, who is or was entrusted with the organisation or management of such society or who is or has at any time been an officer or an employee of the society, has made any payment contrary to this Act, the rules or the bye-laWs or has caused any deficiency in the assets of the society by breach of trust or wilful negligence or has misappropriated or fraudulently retained any money or other property belonging to such society, the Registrar may, of his own motion or on the application of the committee, liquidator or any creditor, inquire himself or direct any person authorised by him, by an order in writing in this behalf, to inquire'into the conduct of such person;  Provided that no such inquiry shall be held after the expiry of six years from the date of any act or omission referred to in this sub-section.
Statute	(2) Where an inquiry is made under sub-section (1), the Registrar may, after giving the person concern ed an opportunity of being heard, make an order, requiring him to repay or restore the money or property or any part thereof, with interest at such rate, or to pay contribution and costs or compensation to such extent, as the Registrar may consider just and equitable."
Statute	"60.
Statute	Disputes which may be referred to arbitration(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, if any dispute touching the constitu- tion, management or the business of a coopera- tive society other than a dispute regarding disciplinary action taken by the society or its committee against a paid employee of the society arises--  (a) among members, past members and persons claiming through members, past members and deceased members, or  (b) between a member, past member or person claiming through a member, past member or deceased member and the society, its com- mittee or any officer, agent or employee of the society or liquidator, past or present, or  (c) between the society or its commit- tee and any past com mittee, any officer, agent or employee, or any past officer, past agent or past employee or the nominee, heirs or legal representatives of any deceased officer, deceased agent, or deceased employee of the society, or  (d) between the society and any other cooperative society, between a society and liquidator of another society or between the liquidator of another society.
Statute	such disputes shall be referred to <ORG> for decisior and no court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit other proceedings in re- spect of such dispute..  (2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the following shall be deemed to be disputed touching the constitution management or the business of a cooperative society namely--  (a) a claim by the society for any debt or demand due to it from a member or the nominee, heirs or legal rep resentatives of a deceased member, whether such debt of demand is admitted or not;  (b) a claim by a surety against the principal debtor where the society has recov- ered from the surety any am ount in respect of any debt or demand due to it from the princi- pal debtor as a result Of the default of the principal debtor, whether such debt or demand is admitted or not;  (c) any dispute arising in connection with the elec tion of any officer of a society other than a society mentioned in sub-section (1) of section 31 .
Statute	(3) If any question arises whether a dispute referred to the <ORG>r under this section is or is not a dispute touching the consitution, management or the business of cooperative society, the decision thereon of the <ORG> shall be final and shall not be called in question in an court.
Argument	i (4) ................."  In substance the contention of the learned counsel for the appeal lant is that the proper action to take in such a case is to resort to section 59 dealing with surcharge and not to settlement of dispute by arbitration since it is not one of the disputes which may be referred to arbitration in terms of section 60 of the Delhi Act.
Argument	It was argued that sub-section (2) of section  60 is exhaustive and not merely illustrative, which shows that the present dispute does not fall within the ambit 0 section 60 .
Argument	Dr. <NAME>, on the other hand, asserted that it is sub section (1) of section 60 which indicates the true scope of section 60 while sub-section (2) is merely illustrative and no exhaustive.
Argument	It was urged that clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 60 expressly provides that if any dispute touching the constitution,' management or the business of the cooperative society arises between the society or its committee and any past committee, any officer, agent or employee or any past officer of the society, the dispute shall be refered to arbitration.
Argument	Reliance is placed on behalf of the appellant on <CITATION_1775026> .
RatioOfTheDecision	1.
RatioOfTheDecision	R. 1976 63 Delhi 299 wherein the learned Single Judge took the view that sub-section (2) of section 60 of the Delhi Act is exhaustive and not merely illustra- tive.
RatioOfTheDecision	That decision overlooks the decision of this Court in Srirakulu referred hereafter and conflicts with  it.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further consideration of the same is, therefore, not necessary.
RatioOfTheDecision	Dr. <NAME> placed reliance in <CITATION_971550> .,  1 SCR 186 to contend that this point was concluded against the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, the contention of Dr. <NAME> has to be accepted.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision of this Court in Srirakulu was ren- dered 'with reference to the Madras Cooperative Societies Act , 1932 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Madras Act') wherein section 51 relating to settlement of disputes by arbitration was the provision corresponding to section 60 of the Delhi Act-Clause (c) of sub-section (L) of section 51 of the Madras Act was substantially the same as clause (c) of sub-section (1)of section 60 of the Delhi Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The explana- tion in sub-section (1) of section 51 of the Madras Act was substantially similar to clause (a)of sub-section (2) of section 60 of the Delhi Act.
Precedent	The material part of section 51 of the Madras Act, on the basis of which the decision was endered in Srirakulu quoted therein is as under--  " S. 51-   Ar bitration:  Disputes: 51.
Precedent	(1) If any dispute touching the business of a registered society (other than a dispute regarding disciplinary action taken by the society or its committee against a paid servant of the society) arises-  (a) .......................................  (b) ....................................  789  (c) between the society or its com- mittee and any past committee, any officer, agent or servant, or any past officer, past agent or past servant, or the nominee, heirs or legal representatives of any deceased officer, deceased agent or deceased servant, of the society, or  (d) ...............................
Precedent	Explanation--A claim by a registered society for any debt or demand due to it from a member, past member or the nominee, heir or legal representative of a deceased member, whether such debt or demand be admitted or not, is a dispute touching the business of the society within the meaning of this sub-sec- tion."
Precedent	In the Madras Act, section 49 was the provision correspond- ing to section 59  of the Delhi Act.
Precedent	It was, therefore, on the basis of similar corresponding provisions that the question arose for decision of this Court in <NAME>.
Argument	In <NAME> also the facts disclosed in the inquiry that certain loss was caused to the society by the acts of past <ORG> and, therefore, a special officer ap- pointed to look into the affairs of the society made a claim under section 51 of the Madras Act before the Registrar against the past President of the <ORG>: It was held that the Registrar's order under section 51 of the Madras Act could not be challenged.
RatioOfTheDecision	We do not find any significant difference between the provisions of the Madras Act which form the basis .of this Court's decision in <NAME> and sections 59 and 60 of the Delhi Act with which we are con- cerned to justify taking a different view as suggested by learned.
RulingByPresentCourt	counsel for the appellant.
RulingByPresentCourt	Following the view taken in <NAME>, this appeal must fail.
RulingByPresentCourt	Consequently, the appeal is dismissed with costs quantified at Rs.5,000.
Precedent	N.P.
Precedent	<ORG> dis- missed.
