Fact	PETITIONER: VINCENT <NAME> Vs. RESPONDENT: UNION OF INDIA & ORS.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT03/03/1987 BENCH: MISRA RANGNATH BENCH: MISRA RANGNATH DUTT, M.M.
Fact	(J) CITATION: 1987 AIR 990 1987 SCR (2) 468 1987 SCC (2) 165 JT 1987 (1) 610 1987 SCALE (1)490 CITATOR INFO : RF 1987 SC1802 (1) F 1988 SC 952 (3,6) RF 1988 SC1737 (73) RF 1991 SC 363 (9) ACT: Constitution of India, 1950, Article 144-- Civil and judicial authorities to act in aid of <ORG>--Public Interest Litigation relating to drug policy filed in the interest of nation's health--Statutory bodies except State of Karnataka responding to <ORG> notice--Constitutional obligation stressed.
Fact	Public Interest Litigation--Health Care for citizens--Whether <ORG> could interfere with the matter touching the policy of the Government and the duty cast under Article 47 of the Constitution.
Fact	HEADNOTE: The petitioner, an advocate by profession has moved <ORG> in public interest seeking directions banning import, manufacture, sal e and distribution of such drugs which have been banned in Western countries or recommended to be banned by <ORG> under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940.
Fact	The petitioner has also sought directions, (i) for cancellation of licences autho- rising import, manufacture, sale and distribution of such drugs; (ii) for Constitution of a high powered Authority to go into the hazards suffered by people of the country on account of such drugs being in circulation and suggest remedial measures including award of compensation.
Fact	Disposing of the petition, the <ORG>, HELD: 1.
Fact	Statutory bodies when called upon by a <ORG>, in particular the apex <ORG> of the Country, are duty-bound to respond and join the proceedings before the <ORG>, as required by Article 144 of the Constitution.
RulingByLowerCourt	These bodies are not litigants and do not have the choice of keeping away from the <ORG> like private parties in ordinary litigations opting to go ex parte.
RulingByLowerCourt	The present matter is certainly one which is sufficiently importa nt and the stake of the entire nation is high when <ORG> extended the oppor- tunity of being heard and invited the named statutory or other authorities to come forward and place their view points on relevant aspects, an attitude of callous indif- 469 ference cannot be appreciated.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is hoped that there would be no repetition of such a situation.
Fact	[475G-H; 476A- <CITATION_1684558> ,  4 SCC 598, followed.
Argument	2.
Argument	Having regard to the magnitude, complexity and tech- nical nature of the enquiry involved in the matter and keeping in view of the far reaching implications of the total ban of certain medicines for which the petitioner has prayed, it is clear that a judicial proceeding of the nature initiated is not an appropriate one for determination of such matters.
Fact	[476H; 477A] 2.2 The issues raised in this petition are of vital importance as they relate to maintenance of approved stand- ards of drugs in general; the writ petition involves the claim for withdrawal of 7000 fixed dose combinations and withd rawal of licences of manufacturers engaged in manufac- ture of about 30 drugs which have been licensed by <ORG>; the issues that fall for consideration are not only relating to technical and specialised matters relating to therapeutic value, justification and harmful side effect of drugs but also involve examination of the ectness of action taken by the respondents 1 and 2 on the basis of advice; the matter also involves the interest of manufacturers and traders of drugs as also the interest of patients who require drugs for their treatment.
Fact	The techni- cal aspects which arise for consideration in a matter of this type cannot be effectively handled by a <ORG>.
Fact	Similar- ly the question of policy which is involved in the matter is also one for <ORG>--keeping the best of interests of citizens in view to decide.
Fact	No final say in regard to such aspects come under the purview of the <ORG>.
Fact	[476D-F; 478F-G] 2.3 This branch namely, Health Care of citizens, is a problem with vario us facets.
Fact	It involves and over-changing challenge.
Fact	There appears to be, as it were, a constant competition between Nature (which can be said to be respon- sible for new ailments) on the side and human ingenuity engaged in research and finding out curative processes.
Fact	This being the situation, the problem has an ever-shifting base.
Fact	It is common place that what is considered to be the best medicine today for treatment of a particular disease becomes out of date and soon goes out of the market with the discov- ery or invention of new drugs.
Fact	Again what is considered to be incurable at any given point of time becomes subjected to treatment and cure with new finds.
Fact	There is yet another situation which must be taken note of as human knowledge expands and marches ahead.
Fact	With the onward march of science and complexities of the living 470 process and hitherto unknown diseases are noticed.
Fact	To meet new challenges, new drugs have to be found.
Fact	In this field, therefore, change appears to be the rule.
Fact	[478G-H; 479A-C] Theref ore, such drugs as are found necessary should be manufactured in abundance and availability to satisfy every demand should be ensured.
Fact	Undue competition in the matter of production of drugs by allowing too many substitutes should be reduced as it introduces unhealthy practice and ultimate- ly tends to affect quality.
Fact	The State's obligation to en- force production of qualitative' drugs and elimination of the injuries ones from the market must take within its sweep an obligation to make useful drugs available at reasonable price so as to be within the common man's reach.
Fact	That would involve regulating the price.
Fact	It may be that there may be an improved quality of a particular medicine which on account of its cost of production will have to sell at a higher price but for every illness which can be cured by treatment, the patient must be in a position to get its medicine.
Fact	This is an obligation under Article 47 of the Constitution.
Fact	[479G-H; 480A- <CITATION_595099> ,  3 SCC 161, referred to.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  ORIGINAL JURIS DICTION: Writ Petition No.
Fact	3492 of 1983.
Fact	Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
Fact	Petitioner-in-person.
Fact	<NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME> for the Respondents.
Argument	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME> The petitioner, an advocate by profession is the General Secretary of <ORG>, Cochin.
Argument	In his application as amended on 7th February, 1983, under Article 32 of the Costitution he has asked for directions, in public interest, banning im- port, manufacture, sale and distribution of such drugs which have been recommended for banning by <ORG> and has also asked for cancellation of all li- cences authorising import, manufacture, sale and distribu- tion in respect of such drugs.
Argument	He has also asked for a direction to <ORG> to constitute a high-powered <ORG> to go into the hazards s uffered by people of the country on account of such drugs being in circulation and suggest remedial meas- ures including award of compensation.
Argument	He has further prayed that directions should be given for framing of strict regu- lations to ensure the quality and standard of approved drugs and to ensure weeding out of same, harmful as also injurious drugs from the market.
Argument	The petitioner has alleged that the drug industry in India is dominated by multi-national Corpo- rations originally based in U.S.A.U.K., <ORG>, Swedon, Japan, France and the like.
Argument	According to the petitioner these Corporations have large resources and make huge profits.
Argument	The control exercised by the Government in this country on such Corporations is minimal and inade- quate.
Argument	The disease-prone sub-continent of India has been used as pasture ground by these Corporations.
Argument	<ORG>, appointed by <ORG> in its Report submitted in 1974, highlighted the havoc played by these Corporations in the Indian sce ne and pleaded for nationalis- ing the drug industry in the best interest of the Indian people.
Argument	The recommendation has not been accepted by the <ORG>.
Argument	According to the petitioner several drugs banned in the advanced west after appropriate analytical research are routed into India and on account on lack of control and sluggish enforcement of the law conveniently find their way into the market.
Argument	What is poison to the human body in the west is equally poison to people in India but not knowing the repercussion thereof on the human system, such drugs freely circulate and are even prescribed for patients.
Argument	<ORG> announced its drug policy in 1979 and set out a guideline covering the relevant aspects of the trade.
Argument	According to the petitioner no attempt has been made to give effect to the policy and there has really been no enforcement.
Argument	The objectives outlined therein have remained on paper.
Argument	Though the policy indicated that <ORG> in- tended to develop indigenous drug technology so as to become  self-sufficient, no effective steps have been taken in this direction.
Argument	The poor illiterate people of India are often misled and misguided as they are not aware of the evil effects of certain drugs available in the market and often become a tool in the hands of quacks and inexperienced doctors.
Argument	Often they fall a victim to publicity and not known how dangerous the result of taking the particular drug could be they take it.
Argument	According to the petitioner, almost half of the drugs used in India are still being imported into the country, notwithstanding indigenous manufacture both by local as also the multi-national Corporations.
Argument	The petition- er has contended that modern drugs reach only one-fifth of the Indian population.
Argument	According to him, the drug industry is totally profit-oriented and no care or attention is bestowed upon good health of the citizens of India.
Argument	In 1980, <ORG> set up a subCom- mittee of experts for screening the formulations of drugs prevalent in the Indian market from th e point of therapeutic rationale in order that irrational and harmful combinations of drugs could be banned.
Fact	The said <ORG> of experts recommended banning of twenty fixed dose combinations of drugs.
Fact	According to the petitioner, 400-500 drugs with different trade names belong to the group of these twenty fixed dose combinations.
Fact	The sub-<ORG>'s report was duly approved by the <ORG> as also <ORG> in 1981.
Fact	The Central Drugs Controller issued directions to the State authorities to strictly enforce the ban of drugs pertaining to these combinations.
Fact	On account of slackness in the enforcement machinery these drugs are still prevalent in the market.
Argument	The Legislation in the field is the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).
Argument	The act was amended in 1982 and the definition of 'drug' was amended and sections 10-A and 26-A were inserted into the Act conferring power on <ORG> to prohibit import of drugs and cosmetics in public interest as also to p rohibit manu- facture, sale or distribution thereof.
Argument	The amended Act came into force with effect from 1st February, 1983, but on account of proceedings taken in Court by manufacturers challenging the vires of Section 26-A of the Act and interim directions given by the <ORG>, the benefit of the new power conferred on <ORG> is not yet available.
Argument	According to the petitioner, Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees fight to life and this Court has interpreted the guarantee to cover a life with normal amenities ensuring good living which include medical attention, life free from diseases and longavity upto normal expections.
Argument	On account of both want of appropriate enforcement of the law as also strict measures necessary to eradicate the existing evils.
Argument	the fundamental right to life is not available to the citi- zens of the country.
Argument	In his writ petition the petitioner originally impleaded <ORG>, <ORG> as also <ORG> as Respondents 1, 2  and 3 respec- tively.
Argument	The Assistant Drugs Controller of India filed an affida- vit by way of joint return to the Rule Nisi on behalf of <ORG> and the Central Drugs Controller.
Argument	He pointed out that 19 categories of fixed dose combinations were recommended for withdrawal from the market and named them in Annexure-I to the counter affidavit.
Argument	According to him, the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder confer sufficient legislative authority and power on <ORG> as also the Central Drugs Controller to effectively operate in the field.
Fact	In paragraph 8 of the counter-affidavit it has been stated that the report of the sub-Committee was considered by <ORG> as also by <ORG> and the recommendations of the Board had been accepted by <ORG> in 1982.
Fact	A circular letter was issued to all the State Drug Controllers on 22nd of April, 1982 asking them to ban manufacture and sale of the named categories of fixed dose  combinations and the cut-off date being 30th September, 1982 for stopping for manufacture of these combinations and 3 1st March, 1983 for sale of these combinations was stipulated.
Fact	On June 26, 1982, a further circular letter was issued by <ORG> to <ORG> in the matter of banning of Oestrogens and Progestins.
Fact	That circu- lar letter has clearly indicated the cut-off dates for stopping the manufacture and sale of these-drugs as 31.12.1982 and 30.6.
Fact	1983 respectively.
Fact	These respondents have taken the further stand that reports regarding prevalence of standard drugs as stated in the Writ Petition have come to light as a result of action taken by <ORG>.
Fact	As regards combinations of Oestrogens and Progestins, in February 1975 <ORG> informed all the member Gov- ernments about the action taken by <ORG> for withdrawal from the market of a number of hormonal pregnancy testing preparatio ns.
Fact	On the basis of such information supplied by <ORG>, <ORG> held consultations with a number of gynaecologists within the country who opined that al- though in advanced countries hormonal preparations for pregnancy testing had been discontinued on account on better methods for detection of pregnancy being available, the prevailing situation in India did not require complete withdrawal from the market of the preparations and it recom- mended that a warning to the effect that there was possibil- ity of congental malformation in case the preparations were administered in the earlier stage of pregnancy should be indicated.
Fact	Accordingly, a decision was taken that combina- tions of Oestrogens and Progestins may be continued for pregnancy test but a warning to the following effect was asked to be put on the package as also in any other promo- tional literature regarding the drugs:-  "Warning:- There is some evidence to show that hormonal preparations when used during pr eg- nancy may lead to foetal abnormalities and as such these should not be used during pregnancy or for pregnancy diagnosis."
Fact	The Director-General of <ORG> communicated the following recommendations:-  "Fixed dose combinations of oestrogens and progesterone may be totally banned in the country even for the treatment of secondary amenorrhoea as other, substitutes are avail-  able in the market for management of secondary amenorrhoea. '
Fact	' On the basis of same <ORG> took a decision to ban fixed dose combinations of these medicines in the country and cut-off dates for manufacture and sale were fixed as 31st December 1982 and 30th of June 1983, respec- tively.
Fact	From time to time <ORG> has been advising <ORG> for stopping of manufac- ture of combinations which have been found to be bad or injurious to health and instances thereof have been given in the counter affidavit.
Fact	With the amendment of the Act in 1982, the Central Gove rnment has now been armed with power to prohibit, in public interest, the import, manufacture, sale and distribution of any drug or cosmetic which is likely to involve any risk to human beings or it would not have the theapeutic value claimed in respect of such prepa- ration.
Argument	The counter affidavit points out that <ORG> <ORG> of Bombay and <ORG> <ORG>, respondent No.
Argument	9 before us filed writ petitions before <ORG> at Bombay and obtained interim orders of stay; similarly in <ORG> <ORG>, respondent No.
Fact	8 before us moved <ORG> and obtained an interim order of stay in regard to their preparations.
Fact	Challenge in these writ petitions is to the vires of Sec- tions 10-A and 26- A of the Act .
Fact	The counter affidavit fur- ther points that some of the medicines which are alleged to have been banned in some developed countries are allowed to continue in the market of the other developed countries and there is no uniformity.
Fact	475  The secon d counter-affidavit of these respondents has been filed after the writ petition was amended.
Fact	On this occasion, the Assistant Drugs Controller of India has stated that it is a fact that <ORG> recommended 116 drugs to be sufficient to treat more than 90 per cent of the diseases prevalent in the country.
Fact	It was, however, found out that this position was not correct and many other drugs were required to meet the situation.
Fact	It pointed out that though <ORG> identified 116 essential drugs, it did not recommend banning of the remaining.
Fact	<ORG> in its report (serial No.
Fact	722 of 1985) has indicated that 285 basic drugs and 358 single ingredient formulations should be considered to be most important for the health and care of the human race.
Argument	It is asserted that all these companies manufacture medicines within the frame- work of the list published by <ORG>.
Argument	It is.
Argument	pointed out that there are about 8000 small scale manufacturers and 214 big manufacturers  in the organised sector for manufacture of medicines.
Argument	When for some reason one particular brand of drug is not available in the market, a substitute thereof has got to be looked for.
Argument	According to them, all appropriate steps have been taken by <ORG> and <ORG> and the petitioner is not entitled to any relief in this writ petition.
Fact	The respondent No.
Fact	4 is <ORG> and respondent No.
Fact	5 is the organisation of pharmaceutical producers the remaining respondents are manufacturers of specified drug preparations.
Fact	In their respective affidavits, respondents No.
Fact	4 and 5 have pleaded against maintainability of the writ petition.
RatioOfTheDecision	This court as early as 11.4.1983 directed issue of notice to <ORG>, <ORG> and <ORG>, the Indian medical Association and the <ORG> authorities of the States except that of Kerala as it was already made a respondent to the writ petition.
RatioOfTheDecision	Obviously  such notice was given as in the opinion of the <ORG>, the matter was one of great importance and the <ORG> looked for participation of these authorities in the debate with a view to assisting the <ORG> in the disposal of the matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are surprised that the notice from the <ORG> has not evoked response excepting the State of Karnataka.
RatioOfTheDecision	(Statutory bodies when called upon by a <ORG>, in particular the apex <ORG> of the Country, are duty-bound to respond and join the proceedings before the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	as required by Article 144 of the constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	These bodies are not litigants and do not have the choice of keeping away from the <ORG> like private parties in ordinary litigations opting to go ex-parte.
RatioOfTheDecision	The present matter is certainly one which is sufficiently important and the stake of the entire nation is high when the <ORG> suo moto extended the opportunity of being heard and invited the named statutory or other author- ities to come forward and place their view points on rele- vant aspects, an attitude of callous  indifference cannot be appreciated.
RatioOfTheDecision	We hope and trust that there would be no repe- tition of such a situation.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must be remembered that this is not a normal litiga- tion with adversaries pitted against one another.
RatioOfTheDecision	What this Court said in <CITATION_1684558> ,  4 SCC 598 has full application.
Argument	There it said:-  "The lis before us is not of the ordinary type where there are two contending parties, a claim is raised by one and denied by the other, issues are struck, evidence is led and the findings follow ......
Argument	The writ petition is essentially in the nature of public inter- est litigation and the petitioner has attempt- ed to voice the grievances of the community."
Argument	The issues in this petition are of vital importance as they relate to maintenance of approved standards of drugs in general; the writ petition involves the claim for withdrawal of 7000 fixed dose combinations and withdrawal of licences of manufacturers engaged in manufacture of about 30 drugs which have been licensed by <ORG> es; the issues that fall for consideration are not only relating to technical and specialised matters relating to therapeutic value, justification and harmful side effect of drugs but also involve examination of the ectness of action taken by the respondents 1 and 2 on the basis of advice; the matter also involves the interest of manufacturers and traders of drugs as also the interest of patients who require drugs for their treatment.
Argument	The respondent No.
Argument	5 has made references to the recom- mendations of <ORG> and the ultimate consideration of <ORG> to plead against the prayer of banning of preparations.
Argument	As already.
Argument	stated the remaining respondents are manufacturers of specific preparations and have supported in their respective counter-affidavits their claim that drugs manufactured or handled by them should not be banned.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having regard to the magnitude, complexity and technical nature of the enquiry involved in the matter and keeping in view the far reaching implications of the tota l ban of certain medicines for which the petitioner has prayed, we must at the outset clearly indicate that a judicial proceeding of the nature initiated is not an appropriate one for determination of such matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is perhaps force in the contention of the petitioner that <ORG> too was not one which could be considered as an authoritative body competent to reach definite conclusions.
RatioOfTheDecision	No adverse opinion can, therefore, be framed against <ORG> for not acting upon its recommendations.
RatioOfTheDecision	A healthy body is the very foundation for all human activities.
Precedent	That is why the adage "Sariramadyam Khaludharma Sadhanara".
Precedent	In a welfare <ORG>, therefore, it is the obliga- tion of the <ORG> to ensure the creation and the sustaining of conditions congenial to good health.
Precedent	This <ORG> in Band- hua Mukti Morcha v. <ORG>, [1984] 3 SCC 161 aptly observed:-  "It is the fundamental right of everyone in this country, assured under the interpretation given to Article 21 by this <ORG> in <NAME>  <NAME>'s case-- 1 SCC 608--to live with human dignity, free from exploitation.
Precedent	This right to live with human dignity enshrined in Article 21 derives its life breath from the Directive Principles of <ORG> Policy and particularly clauses (e) and (f) of Article 39 and Articles 41 and 42 and at the least, therefore, it must include protection of the health and strength of the workers, men and women, and of the tender age of children against abuse, opportunities and facilities for children to develop in a healthy manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity, educational facilities, just as humane condi- tions of work and maternity relief.
Precedent	These are the minimum requirements which must exist in order to enable a person to live with human dignity, and no <ORG>--neither the Central Government---has the right to take any action which will deprive a person of the enjoyment of these basic essentials".
Precedent	While endorsing what has been said above, we would refer to Article 47 in Part IV of the Constitution.
Precedent	That Article  provides:--  "The <ORG> shall regard the raising of the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties and, in particular, the <ORG> shall endeavour to bring about prohi-  478  bition of the consumption except for medicinal purposes of intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to health."
Precedent	This Article has laid stress on improvement of public health and prohibition of drugs injurious to health as one of the primary duties of the <ORG>.
Precedent	<CITATION_1111529> ,  1 SCC 246 this <ORG> has pointed out that, "the Fundamental Rights are intended to foster the ideal of a political democracy and to prevent the establishment of authoritarian rule but they are of no value unless they can be enforced by resort to courts.
Precedent	So they are made justifiable.
Precedent	However, it is also evident that notwithstanding their great importance, the Directive Principles cannot in the very nature of things be enforced in a <ORG> of Law, but it does not mean tha t Directive Principles are less important than Fundamental Rights or that they are not binding on the various organs of the <ORG>."
Precedent	In a series of pronouncements during the recent years this <ORG> has culled out from the provisions of Part IV of the Constitution these several obligations of the <ORG> and called upon it to effectuate them in order that the resultant pictured by the Constitution Fathers may become a reality.
Precedent	As pointed out by us, maintenance and improvement of public health have to rank high as these are indispensable to the very physical existence of the communi- ty and on the betterment of these depends the building of the society of which the Constitution makers envisaged.
Precedent	Attending to public health, in our opinion, therefore, is of high priority--perhaps the one at the top.
Precedent	None of the parties before us claimed, and perhaps tightly, that the prevailing state of affairs in this regard is a commendable one.
Precedent	The technical aspects which arise for consideration in a matter of this type cannot b e affectively handled by a court.
Precedent	Similarly the question of policy which is involved in the matter is also one for <ORG>--keeping the best of interests of citizens in view to decide.
Precedent	No final say in regard to such aspects come under the purview of the court.
Precedent	Yet there are certain contentions raised by the petitioner which deserve serious consideration and we would now proceed to deal with them.
Precedent	The branch with which we are now dealing, namely, health care of citizens, is a problem with various facets.
Precedent	It involves an everchanging challenge.
Precedent	There appears to be, as it were, a constant competition between Nature (which can be said to be responsible for new ailments) on one side and human ingenuity engaged in research and finding out curative processes.
Precedent	This being the situation, the problem has an ever-shifting base.
Precedent	It is common place that what is considered to be the best medicine today for treatment of a particular disease becomes out of date and soon goes out of the market with the discovery  or invention of new drugs.
Precedent	Again what is considered to be incurable at any given point of time becomes subjected to treatment and cure with new finds.
Precedent	There is yet another situation which must be taken note of as human knowledge expands and marches ahead.
Precedent	With the onward march of science and complexities of the living process and hitherto unknown diseases are no- ticed.
Precedent	To meet new challenges, new drugs have to be found.
Precedent	In this field, therefore, change appears to be the rule.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already taken note of the position that <ORG> was of the view that a fixed number of formulations were enough to meet the demand.
RatioOfTheDecision	From the coun- ter-affidavit of respondents 1 and 2, we have gathered that this conclusion of <ORG> was not accepted as on analysis it was not found to be a correct statement of the position.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> in its report, on the basis of expert advice, is of the view that human ailments can be treated effectively with 285 basic drugs.
RatioOfTheDecision	We assume and it is not  disputed that the expertise available to <ORG> was of a higher order and perhaps more accurate than what was at the disposal of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	While we are cognizant of the position that the problem is a shifting one and one cannot have a fixed process to deal with the situations that would arise from time to time, <ORG> on the basis of the expert advice can indeed adopt an approved national policy and prescribe an adequate number of formulations which would on the whole meet the requirement of the people at large.
RatioOfTheDecision	Obviously, instant attention has to be bestowed to keep abreast of the changing situations and make proper and timely amends.
RatioOfTheDecision	While laying the guidelines on this score, injurious drugs should be totally eliminated from the mar- ket.
RatioOfTheDecision	Great care in this regard has to be taken.
Precedent	Such drugs as are found necessary should be manufactured in abundance and availability to satisfy every demand should be ensured.
Precedent	Undue competition in the matter of production of  drugs by allowing too many substitutes should be reduced as it introduces unhealthy practice and ultimately tends to affect quality.
Precedent	The State's obligation to enforce production of qualitative drugs and elimination of the injurious ones from the market must take within its sweep an obligation to make useful drugs available at reasonable price so as to be within the common man's reach.
Precedent	That would involve regulating the price.
Precedent	It may be that there may be an improved quality of a particular medicine which on account of its cost of produc- tion will have to sell at a higher price but for every illness which can be cured by treatment, the patient must be in a position to get its medicine.
Precedent	This, in our view, is an obligation which the <ORG> has already found in the relevant articles of Part IV of the Constitution.
Precedent	The prescribed preparations must maintain their quality, and for ensuring it, strict regulations are necessary.
Precedent	Provision in statutes or rules or instructions issued by executive authorities do not meet  the demands of today's situation.
Precedent	The process of regulation has to be strengthened.
Precedent	Law must be provided with sufficient biting teeth and there must be genuine apprehension in the mind of every person engaged in the trade that any infraction would be visited with exemplary punishment.
Precedent	In the prevailing situation in the country, unless the law is properly enforced, it would be difficult to regulate the quality of the drugs.
Precedent	Standar- disation of the preparations will also introduce a healthy atmosphere in the market.
Precedent	The practising doctor should be acquainted with the drug policy, availability of drugs and take care to prescribe available medicine to his patient.
Precedent	There must be due emphasis on indigenous production so that in due course, what the Government contemplated in 1979 in its then drug policy may be effectuated by India.
Precedent	We have made large strides in our advancement in the field of science as also manufacture of drugs since independence.
Precedent	Drugs prepared in India today have an international market in a li mited way.
Precedent	There does not seem to be any lack of ability to manufacture drugs.
Precedent	We commend to <ORG>, therefore, that the drug policy of the <ORG> should emphasise upon a time-bound switch over to indigenous pro- duction.
Precedent	Research in this field is of vital importance.
Precedent	Constant attention has to be devoted to get the best of results at the laboratories and put to use all useful findings.
Precedent	The traditional indigenous system of treatment in India had once upon a time made a lot of advancement.
Precedent	There is, therefore, sufficient scope for research on the basis of our own knowl- edge.
Precedent	Herbal preparations, as far as practicable, should be encouraged and appropriate laboratories should be set up, both in the public and the private sector to continue the system of research into every branch in this field relevant to gathering of knowledge and proper utilisation thereof in the field of treatment and manufacture of drugs.
Precedent	We reiter- ate that it is not for the Court to lay down the drug policy of the <ORG>.
Precedent	We a re aware of the fact that the <ORG> is concerned and anxious to improve the general condition and is willing to exercise adequate control; <ORG> has in several legislations in recent years enhanced the penalities with a view to ensure elimination of injurious drugs and maintenance of the quality and standard of drug prepara- tions.
Precedent	There is, however, no scope for complacency in this field and constant and regular attention has to be bestowed in order that the flow into the market may be only of ac- ceptable drugs.
Precedent	Every indigenous drug manufacturer must have an obliga- tion by law to disclose the formula of preparation and other statutory information in the national language and at least one or two other languages, keeping in view the place of manufacture of the drug and the area of its circulation.
Precedent	Any statutory warning to be administered should also follow the same course.
Precedent	We would like to indicate that it is for the Government on the basis of expert advice to decide whether use of poisonous medicine  may not be reduced; after all administering the warning is not a sufficient excuse to circulate poison by way of medicine.
RatioOfTheDecision	We hope and trust that <ORG> would come forward with a declaration of its drug policy at a very early date.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears to us that there is an immediate need for a central enforcement machinery in the interest of community at large.
RatioOfTheDecision	We hope and expect that <ORG> would cooperate with <ORG> in this regard and <ORG> would take a lead to establish such an authority which would have jurisdiction all over the country with a view to regulating manufacture and punishing defaults and lapses.
RatioOfTheDecision	Licencing of manufacture should also be centralised so that uniformity can be maintained.
RatioOfTheDecision	These are matters of common concern and we hope that <ORG>, without loss of time, would take care to evolve a system which would effectively operate.
RatioOfTheDecision	Leave is granted to <ORG> to apply to the Court, if there be any difficulty  experienced in implementation of such a scheme.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 5 of the Act authorises constitution of <ORG> as also a State Board for each State.
RatioOfTheDecision	The object of setting up of such Boards is to advise the respective Governments on technical matters arising out of the administration of the Act and to carry out such other functions as are assigned to the Boards by the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sub-section (2) provides for the manning of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are of the view that adequate representa- tion should be, provided to consumers and at least two capable representatives from out of their category should be nominated by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The manning of this Board should be such that in its functioning it would be in a position to effectively advise <ORG> on all technical matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 7 provides for the setting up of <ORG> and its statutory purpose is to advise <ORG>, <ORG> and <ORG> rd on any matter tending to secure uniformity throughout India in the administration of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are of the view that on this Committee too there should be adequate representation on behalf of the consuming public.
RatioOfTheDecision	If necessary, prompt steps may be taken to bring about suitable amendments to authorise such representation both on <ORG> as also <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> should set up regional Drug Laboratories in addition to <ORG> as pro- vided by section 6 of the Act to facilitate and promote research and coordinate activity in that regard.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have no doubt that the existing <ORG> is a useful body but <ORG> should consider whether it requires to be broad-based and confined with larger scope of operation or it is necessary to consti- tute another high powered authority, as prayed for by the petitioner so that such a vital matter like public health does not go without adequate attention.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before we part with the  case, we must point out that the amending provisions of 1982 which were brought into force in 1983 have remained mostly inoperative on account of orders of injunction granted by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> may get impleaded in the pending proceedings before the different <ORG>s and request the said <ORG>s for expeditious disposal of the matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	At one point of time, we were thinking of making an order dissolving the interim directions but that would have necessitated impleading these parties in this case and hearing them.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have, therefore, thought it proper to suggest that <ORG> may get impleaded in the pending proceedings, if they are al- ready not parties and apply to the <ORG>s.
RatioOfTheDecision	We sincerely hope that when any such application is moved before the <ORG> where a dispute of this type is pending, the <ORG> would make every endeavour to expedite the disposal of the proceedings and have the same disposed of as early as possible and preferably within a period of  two months from the date when it is approached so that the dispute may end.
RatioOfTheDecision	If there be any difficulty in giving effect to this part of the judgment, <ORG> has leave of this Court to make an appropriate application for directions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The objection raised by the petitioner with reference to specific medicines has not been examined by us mainly for the reason that we have found this proceeding not an appro- priate one for such purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	We, however, hope that <ORG> shall take into consideration the objec- tions raised by the petitioner and have the same referred to <ORG> or to such other body as it con- siders expedient for immediate examination and a decision in that regard shall be taken, not later than six months.
RatioOfTheDecision	The petitioner has indeed done a commendable job in bringing the matter before the Court.
RulingByPresentCourt	We appreciate his move and are inclined to think that he should be suitably compen- sated with a view to reimbursing him for the expenses.
RulingByPresentCourt	We direct the <ORG> stry of Health of the Central Government to deposit a sum of Rs.5000 (Rupees Five Thousand only) in this Court within two months hence which the petitioner will be at liberty to withdraw.
RulingByPresentCourt	Petition disposed of.
Precedent	484
