Fact	<NAME>, C.J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This is an appeal under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent from, a judgment of Mr. Justice <NAME>, who has confirmed, the decree of the lower <ORG>, which in its, turn confirmed that of the <ORG> of: first instance dismissing the suit with costs.
Fact	2.
Fact	The facts are briefly these.
Fact	On the 22nd of July, 1899, defendants Nos.
Fact	1 to 4 borrowed from the plain tiff a sum of Rs.
Fact	800, and, by way of security for this, they gave a personal covenant by a, registered bond, and also purported, though ineffectually, to create a charge, by deposit of a pattah relating to immoveable property.
Fact	Interest was paid on this bond up to the 13th of April 1903; and, on the 18th August, 1903, defendants Nos.
Fact	1 to 4 executed a registered instrument of transfer of all their property, moveable and immoveable, to defendant No.
Fact	5 for a sum of Rs.
Fact	2,000, becoming thereby, as the plaint' describes it, "rightless.
Fact	"This Rs.
Fact	2,000 was not all paid, in cash, but there was a provision and declaration in the kabala th at out of this consideration money of Rs.
Fact	2,000, amongst other things, the sum of Rs.
Argument	330 due to the plaintiff should, be paid by defendant No.
Argument	5.
Argument	On the very same day there was an arrangement between the plaintiff and defendant No.
Argument	5 by which the" liability of defendant No.
Argument	5 under the transfer was acknowledged and accepted, and either, then or in connection there with this pattah was handed over to defendant No.
Argument	5.
Argument	The plaintiff, having sought in vain payment of this money, which in common honesty is due from defendant No.
Argument	5, has noW bee compelled to bring this suit, whereby he prays against defendants Nos.
Argument	1 to 1 and defendant No.
Fact	5, but principally against defendant No.
Fact	5, a decree for payment of Rs.
Fact	613-14 annas, which represents this principal sum of Rs.
Fact	300 and the interest that accrued on it.
Fact	As 1 have already indicated, he has failed in all <ORG>, and the only question now is whether he is to fail before us.
Argument	3.
Argument	We are clearly of opinion that there was no novation within the meaning of Section 62 of  the Contract Act--no substitution of a new contract for an old contract--and the question to be decided la whether or not the plaintiff is entitled to sue on that registered instrument of the 18th of August, 1903, whereby defendant No.
Argument	5 undertook to pay the plaintiff what was due to him from defendants Nos.
Argument	1 to 4.
Argument	Looking at it broadly, there can be no doubt that an obligation was undertaken by defendant No.
Argument	5 and that it was for, and intended to be for, the benefit of the plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are expressions in the judgments of the <ORG> which are suggestive of an oral contract between the plaintiff and defendant No.
RatioOfTheDecision	5, but that, I think, was a misconception of the position.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, the findings of the lower <ORG> do not justify the view that there was a contract, but there was, as I have already indicated, an acknowledgment on the part of defendant No.
Fact	5 communicated to the plaintiff, and accepted by him of an obligation on the part of defendant No.
Fact	5 towards the plaintiff, for the debt which was  to be paid by defendant No.
RulingByLowerCourt	5 under the provisions of the registered instrument of the 18th of August, 1903.
Fact	It is material in this connection to observe, first, that defendants Nos.
Argument	1 to 4 parted with the whole of their property, moveable and immoveable, to defendant No.
Argument	5; secondly, that on the same date there was this arrangement between the plaintiff and defendant No.
Argument	5 which, clearly points to a communication to the plaintiff of the transaction; and, finally, that as a result of this the pattah which was regarded by the parties at that time, erroneously perhaps, as constituting a charge on the property, was handed back by the plaintiff to defendant No.
Argument	5.
Argument	It appears to me that one may fairly say that this sum of Rs.
Argument	330 mentioned in the registered instrument of August was allocated and held by defendant No.
Argument	5 for the benefit of the plaintiff, so that in a sense the money was reified and earmarked for this purpose.
Fact	We' have here then a position in which it would be, in accordance with the principles of ju stice, equity and good conscience, the abiding rule in these <ORG>, that the plaintiff should be entitled to enforce this claim against defendant No.
Precedent	5.
Precedent	If we were governed by <NAME> v. <NAME> (1861) 1 B.
Precedent	&S. 393; 181 E.R.
Precedent	762; 124 R.R.
Precedent	610. there might possibly be a difficulty in our way, but it has to be borne in mind that <NAME> v. <NAME> (1861) 1 B.
Precedent	&S. 393; 181 E.R.
Precedent	762; 124 R.R.
Precedent	610. was a decision on a form of action peculiar to the Common Law <ORG> in England and that the case was influenced by the rule that no action in assumpsit could be maintained upon a promise unless consideration moved from the party to whom it was made.
Precedent	Here we have a definition of consideration which is wider than the requirement of the English law: [ Section 2(d) of the Contract Act].
Precedent	And it has been laid down by Sir <NAME> in a <ORG> decision of this <ORG> in relation to <ORG> in the mofussil [Rumbux Chittangeo's Case (1867) B.L.R.
Precedent	Sup.
Precedent	Vol.
Precedent	675.
Precedent	7 W.B.
Argument	377] that in those <ORG> the rights of parties ar e to be determined according to the general principles of equity and justice without any distinction, as in England, between that partial justice which is administered in <ORG> and the more full and complete justice for which it is frequently necessary to seek the assistance of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rules and the fictions which have been in many cases adopted by <ORG> in England for the purpose of obtaining jurisdiction in cases which would otherwise have been cognizable only by <ORG>, are not necessary to be followed in this country where the aim is to do complete justice in one suit.
Precedent	More than that we now have ample authority for saying that the administration of justice in these <ORG> is not to be in any way hampered by the doctrine laid down in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1910) I.L.R.
Precedent	32 All.
Precedent	410 L.R.
Precedent	37 I.A.
Precedent	152.
Precedent	That take to be" the result of the decision of <ORG> in the recent case <CITATION_1020411> (1910) I.L.R.
Precedent	32 All.
Precedent	410 L.R.
Precedent	37 I.A.
Precedent	152.
Precedent	In the r eport of that case, in 14 Calcutta Weekly Notes (1910) 14 C.W.N.
RatioOfTheDecision	868, there is an interlocutory remark of Lord <NAME> which indicates the limits imposed on <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	He there says, "Supposing she (that is the plaintiff were an English woman, it is true she could not bring an action in <ORG>, but could she not bring a suit in Equity?"
RatioOfTheDecision	The answer of the learned Counsel was "yes."
RatioOfTheDecision	It is possible that this distinction can be explained by the history of the action of assumpsit which was a development of the writ of trespass.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the old writ in indebitatus assumpsit it was alleged that the defendant "not regarding his said promise and undertaking but contriving and fraudulently intending craftily and subtilly to deceive and defraud," had not paid and so forth.
RatioOfTheDecision	The breach of contract was charged as deceit and it was only the person deceived who could sue.
RatioOfTheDecision	The bar then in the way of an action by the person not a direct party to the contract, was probably one of procedure and not o f substance.
RatioOfTheDecision	In India we are free from these trammels and are guided in matters of procedure by the rule of justice, equity and good conscience.
Precedent	The case with which we are now dealing finds a close parallel in <NAME> & <NAME> v. <NAME> (1817) 3 Mer.
Precedent	582; 36 E.R.
Precedent	224 and also in the more recent cases of <NAME> v. <ORG> (1871) L.R.
Precedent	6 Ch.
Precedent	App.
Precedent	671, 677 and <NAME> v. <NAME> (1885) 30 Ch.
Precedent	D. 55.
Argument	There is a valuable exposition of the law by Lord <NAME> in the first of these last two cases which was adopted by Lord Justice <NAME> in the second.
Argument	The Lord Chancellor said, "The case comes within the authority that where a sum is payable by <NAME> for the benefit of C.D., C.D.
Argument	can claim under the con tract as if it had been made with himself."
RatioOfTheDecision	That appears to me to be a principle which is of distinct use in the consideration of this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears to me that we have therefore, in the circumstances of this case, a condition of affairs in which it would be right to hold that the pla intiff is entitled, to enforce his claim in this suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	The claim is one under the registered instrument of the 18th of August 1903: and it is unnecessary to consider whether the plaintiff is entitled to rely on the deposition as an acknowledgment for the purpose of taking this case out of the operation of the statute of Limitation, for admittedly if this is a suit on the registered instrument of transfer, it is within time.
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
RatioOfTheDecision	We, therefore, reverse the judgment of Mr. Justice <NAME>, as also the decrees of the lower <ORG> and of the <ORG> so far as relates to defendant "No.
Argument	5 and pass a decree in the plaintiff's favour for the sum of Rs.
Argument	613-14 annas with costs throughout.
Argument	This decree will be against defendant No.
Precedent	5 alone.
Precedent	As against defendants Nos.
Precedent	1 to 4, the decree of dismissal will stand but without costs in this Court.
Precedent	Having regard to the disingenuousness of the defence made by defendant No.
Precedent	5, interest should ran at six percent, per annum on the principal sum adjudged from the date of the su it to the date of the decree, and thenceforth on the decretal amount until payment.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
RulingByPresentCourt	5. concurred.
