Fact	ORDER S.S. Dhavan, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This is a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution impugning the legality of an order dated 30-4-1958 passed by Mr. <NAME>, <ORG> Commissioner, Rohilkhand Division, dismissing the petitioner from service under the State of Uttar Pradesh as Supervisor <NAME>.
Fact	The petitioner has filed a long and rambling affidavit containing the entire history of his case from the year 1947 when he first got into trouble uptill the date of his dismissal in 1958.
Fact	After looking into the entire record (which consisted of several hundreds of foolscap typed pages) I feel that it is not necessary for me to consider any of the arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioner as I am of the opinion that they have no force, but I have also come to the conclusion that the order of dismissal is vitiated by failure-to comply with the mandatory provisions of Article 311 of the Constitution and must therefore be quashed.
Fact	It is necessary to give, very briefly the facts which form the background of this case .
Fact	2.
Fact	The petitioner states in the affidavit that he was appointed a Supernumerary <NAME> by the Director of Land Records, U. P. on 25-2-1925.
Fact	In October, 1927, he was confirmed as Supervisor <NAME> and in 1945 promoted as a second grade Supervisor <NAME>.
Fact	In 1947, however, his troubles and misfortunes began.
Fact	3.
Fact	The petitioner was prosecuted under Section 161, I.P.C .
Fact	for the offence of taking illegal gratification, According to the petitioner the proceedings were a frame-up against him caused by the prejudice and hostility of certain local officials.
Fact	He was convicted on 19-8-1950, and appealed against his conviction.
Fact	Without waiting for the result of the appeal, the authority concerned passed an order of dismissal against the petitioner on 19-1-1951.
Fact	But on 7-3-1951, his appeal was allowed by the learned Sessions Judge of Bareilly on the technical ground that the prosecution of the petitioner was without sanction and therefore without jurisdiction.
Fact	On 11-11-1952, he was served with a charge sheet in resp ect of the same offences which were the foundation of the criminal proceedings ending in his acquittal.
Fact	On 17-1-1953, he was served with a notice to show cause why he should not be dismissed from service.
Fact	In his reply he contended that the charge was without jurisdiction.
Fact	He must have been dismissed subsequently, for when he filed a writ petition in this Court (Writ Petition No.
Fact	7507 of 1951) a statement was made on behalf of the Government on 23-11-1953, that the order, of dismissal had been withdrawn.
Fact	The petition having become infructuous was dismissed by a Division Bench of this Court, but the State was ordered to pay the costs of the petitioner.
Fact	On 6-3-1954, the petitioner made his first representation for the implementation of the decision of the Government -- that is to say, he demanded reinstatement.
Fact	Subsequently he made numerous representations which again landed him into trouble.
Fact	On 5-1-1955, he was served with a second charge sheet accusing him of having used language in his representations which  was highly objectionable.
Fact	Quotations from his various representations were included in the charge sheet, which is Annexure VIII of the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the <ORG>.
Fact	This was duly followed by a notice asking him to show cause why he should not be dismissed.
Fact	In reply to this the petitioner contended that the notice was without jurisdiction.
Fact	It appears that he also made representations to the then Chief Minister and to several Ministers.
Fact	His wife appears to have approached the then Governor of the <ORG> (the late <NAME>).
Fact	His efforts eventually were successful, for an order was passed on 25-7-1956, reinstating him in service.
Fact	This is annexure 'F' of the petitioner's affidavit.
Fact	The relevant paragraph is No.
Fact	2 which runs as follows :  "On the dismissal of Shri <NAME> Supervisor Kanungo district Pilibhit Shri <NAME> was confirmed by the Collector, Pilibhit in that vacancy.
RulingByPresentCourt	<NAME> has since been reinstated with effect from the date of  dismissal.
RulingByPresentCourt	The orders for confirmation of <NAME> in that vacancy have therefore become infructuous.
RulingByPresentCourt	<NAME> should in supersession of the previous orders now be confirmed with effect from 22-1-1951 in the vacancy caused by the dismissal of <NAME> Supervisor Kanungo district Moradabad.
RulingByPresentCourt	He should be informed accordingly through the collector under whom he may be serving at present.
Fact	<NAME>, I.C.S.
Precedent	Commissioner, <ORG>.
Precedent	Bareilly.
Precedent	No: 1703/9/VII-36 (54-55) dated July 25, 1956.
RatioOfTheDecision	Copy forwarded to all the Collectors in the division for information and necessary action immediately.
RatioOfTheDecision	An uptodate copy of the gradation list fin triplicate) of supervisor <NAME> in such district after the above confirmations may please be sent to me immediately.
Fact	Sd.
Fact	<NAME> Head Assistant for Commissioner No.
Fact	1710/VII-36-(54-55) of date.
Precedent	Copy forwarded to the Land Reforms Commissioner, U. P, Section 4 Lucknow for information.
Precedent	Sd.
Fact	<NAME> Head Assistant f or Commissioner."
Fact	4.
Fact	It is necessary to pause at this stage and consider the legal effect of this order of reinstatement.
Fact	The petitioner had been charged with certain offences on two occasions.
Fact	On the first, he was dismissed but the order of dismissal was withdrawn.
Fact	But perhaps the statement made to <ORG> was not implemented and, though the dismissal was formally revoked, the petitioner in fact remained: outside his service.
Fact	His representations were considered objectionable and he was again served with a charge sheet.
Fact	While the proceedings were still pending, the order of reinstatement dated 25-7-1956, was passed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The language of this order shows that the petitioner's reinstatement was absolute and unqualified.
RulingByPresentCourt	This is shown by the fact that the official who was given the appointment created by his dismissal had to give it up in favour of the petitioner.
RulingByPresentCourt	It is also shown by directions for the amendment of the Gradation list and bringing it uptodate in the light of the petitioner's reinstatement.
Argument	5.
Argument	The petitioner, however, was not satisfied with his position.
Argument	It appears that he was given no post even after the passing of the reinstatement order, nor was he paid his salary with effect from the date of his dismissal apart from the subsistence allowance which he had been receiving during the period of his suspension.
Argument	On 24-5-1957, he served a notice on the Governor of the State which bears the title "Notice to launch <NAME> by starting to fast unto death at the western gate of the Government House Lucknow on 10-6-1957 at 10.30 A.M." The notice was sent by registered post and was marked 'Immediate'.
Argument	In it the petitioner complained of what he called "10 years wrongful suspension.
Argument	10 years prosecution (obviously meaning persecution)."
Argument	After narrating his version of the events of the preceding decade and giving a catalogue of his grievances he ended the letter with a prayer backed with a threat.
RulingByLowerCourt	The prayer is in these terms:  "It is, therefore, prayed (1) That in terms of judgment of <ORG> D/- 23-11-5 3 orders for payment of my salary arrears from 20-11-47 to-date and for reinstatement be issued.
RulingByLowerCourt	"(2) That orders for amendment of invalid rules in terms of judgment of Judge <NAME> 17-12-51 be issued.
Fact	(3) My case be withdrawn from <ORG> and be entrusted to the <ORG> department in charge of Chief Minister.
Fact	(4) The undertakings given to me by Smt.
Fact	<NAME> to pay lavishly for my wrongful prosecution and to post me as <NAME> be fulfilled.
Fact	(5) I be suitably compensated for the loot of "my house.
Fact	(6) A commission headed either by a Judge of <ORG> or Minister of Justice be appointed to look into the serious crimes committed by superior officials of the Government.
Fact	For the grant of my above requests I shall be grateful."
Fact	6.
Fact	The threat was in these words "If however my requests are not granted by 9-1-1957, I shall begin my fast unto death at Government House Lucknow on 10-6-57 at 10.30 A.M."  7.
Fact	A copy of this notice was forwarded to the Chief Minister of Uttar Pr <NAME>, Dr. <NAME> "for favour of looking into the matter personally and save a high family from disaster and wrongful prosecution."
Argument	8.
Argument	It is not at all surprising that the Government took serious objection to this kind of notice and the petitioner was again in serious trouble.
Argument	On 11-7-1957, a charge sheet was issued against him in which he was accused of having sent the notice to the Governor "in utter disregard of official discipline" and of having given a "threat to Government to redress your grievances according to your own choice."
Argument	As this charge sheet is the foundation of the impugned order of dismissal, it is necessary to quote its text verbatim :  "Under Regd.
Fact	With Acknowledgment.
Fact	<ORG>, Pilibhit No D/- 11-7-1957.
Fact	<NAME>, Supervisor Kanungo (under Suspension) Pilibhit, Mohalla Garhi Gate, Bareilly.
Fact	You are hereby charged as follows : 1.
Fact	That you sent a notice dated 24-5-57, addressed to the <NAME> of Uttar Pr<NAME> threatening to start hunger, strike at the W estern Gate of <ORG> House on 10-6-1957 at 10-30 A.M. in case your grievances were not redressed by 9-6-1957, through <NAME>, Revenue Minister, Uttar Pradesh, and thereby committed a breach of orders contained in para 2 of Appointment (A) Department G. O.
Fact	No.
Fact	3551/11-161 1012/47 dated 31-10-1947 by approaching the members of <ORG> direct.
Fact	You are thus guilty of utter disregard of official discipline and giving threat to <ORG> to re-dress your grievances according to your choice.
Fact	Evidence which it is proposed to consider in support of the above charge :  (1) Notice dated 24-5-57 of Sri <NAME>, Supervisor Kanungo, Pilibhit (under suspension) addressed to the Governor of U. P. through <NAME>, Revenue Minister.
Fact	You are hereby required on or before 27-7-1957 to put in a written statement of your defence in reply to the above charges.
Fact	Your are warned that if no such statement is received from you by the undersigned within the time allowed, it will be presumed that you hav e none to furnish and orders will be passed in your case accordingly.
Fact	You are further simultaneously to inform the undersigned in writing whether you desire to be heard in person and in case you wish to examine or cross examine any witnesses to submit along with your written statement their names and addresses together with a brief indication of the evidence which each such witness will be expected to give.
Fact	July 11, 1957 Sd.
Fact	G. S. Sial I.A.S.
Fact	Collector, Pilibhit."
Fact	9.
Fact	It is noteworthy that the only offence imputed to the petitioner in this charge sheet is his alleged misconduct in having served the notice dated 24-5-1957, on the Governor.
Fact	There is no reference whatsoever to the earlier offences accepting illegal gratification and using offensive language which were the subject matter in earlier proceedings against him.
Fact	The petitioner was called upon to defend himself against this charge and nothing else.
Fact	10.
Fact	An enquiry was instituted and the report of the Enquiry Officer, Mr. <NAME>, dated 25 -12-1957, is attached as Annexure XIII to the counter affidavit of the <ORG>.
Fact	This Officer held that the charge was proved against the petitioner.
Argument	On the basis of this finding the Commissioner <ORG> Mr. <NAME> served a notice on the petitioner to show cause why the order of dismissal in regard to him "should not be confirmed".
Argument	It is somewhat difficult to understand what the Commissioner meant by the phrase "why these orders should not be confirmed?
Argument	", Under the law no order of dismissal could be passed unless and until the accused official had shown cause and his explanation had been considered by the dismissing authority.
Argument	Probably Mr. <NAME> referred to the request of the Collector of Pilibhit for the Commissioner's concurrence in the proposal to dismiss the petitioner (see para 5 of Mr. <NAME>'s order); the Commissioner merely used wrong terminology which however did not of itself prejudice the petitioner.
Argument	11.
Argument	But in his order requiring the petitioner to show why the punishment or dismissal shoul d not be imposed on him, the Commissioner took into consideration certain acts of the petitioner which were not included in the charge sheet dated 11-7-1957, and which were the foundation of earlier charge sheets in 1952 and 1955 respectively.
Argument	For example, in para 7 of his order he considered the charge sheet served on the petitioner in 1952, in which he was accused of accepting illegal gratification.
Argument	He also considered the charge sheet of 1955 in which the petitioner was accused of using offensive language in his representations.
Argument	He also considered the latest charge sheet dated 11-7-1957, by which the petitioner was accused of having threatened the Governor with a hunger strike unless his grievance was redressed by a certain date.
Argument	On the basis of these three offences the Commissioner came to the following conclusion:  "I therefore propose to dismiss <NAME> ........ from service."
Argument	12.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears that the petitioner did not give any satisfactory explanation beyond challenging the jurisdiction of th e authorities to reopen the matter after his reinstatement.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Commissioner thereupon held, and in my opinion rightly, that the petitioner had been given an opportunity to submit what-ever explanation he wanted and proceeded to pass the final order of dismissal against him.
RatioOfTheDecision	13.
RatioOfTheDecision	Unfortunately, however, this order is also vitiated by the fact that Mr. <NAME> took into consideration not only the petitioner's misconduct as expounded in the charge sheet dated 11-7-1957, -- which alone he was entitled to consider -- but also the earlier acts of alleged misconduct which find no place in that charge sheet.
Precedent	For example, in para 27 of his order, the Commissioner wrote "There is no doubt whatsoever from the evidence which was produced in the criminal trial ...... that he accepted illegal gratification from <NAME> on the strength of recommending his application for supply of wood from <ORG>."
Precedent	In para 28 he wrote "An official who accepts illegal gratification in the most blatant manner and then t ries to save himself from the punishment that he has merited by writing to his superior officers in language so offensive and unbalanced, certainly merits dismissal."
Precedent	14.
Argument	Taking into consideration these three acts of misconduct alleged to have been committed by the petitioner, Mr. <NAME> passed the following order:  "I now dismiss him from service, the dismissal to take effect from 12-11-52."
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
RatioOfTheDecision	A perusal of both the orders passed by Mr. <NAME> -- the one containing the show cause notice and the other directing the petitioner's dismissal -- clearly shows that Mr. <NAME> was chiefly Influenced by the petitioner's conduct in having accepted illegal gratification, in or about 1947.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, the offence with which the petitioner was actually charged in the charge-sheet dated 11-7-1957, was hardly considered by him at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is 3 passing reference to it, but of perfunctory nature.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME>'s decision to dismiss the petitioner is really based on the alleged offence of having taken illegal gratificati on.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Commissioner was clearly not entitled in the impugned proceedings to consider any act of the petitioner except the one in respect of which he was called upon to defend himself.
RatioOfTheDecision	The proceedings started with a charge that the petitioner had been guilty of having threatened the Governor to go on strike and ended with his conviction on the charge of having accepted illegal gratification and used offensive language.
RulingByPresentCourt	Thus there has been a clear violation of the mandatory provisions of Article 311(2) of the Constitution, which enjoins that "no person .... shall be dismissed or removed or reduced in rank until he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him."
Argument	The petitioner is entitled to complain that if Mr. <NAME> had confined himself to the offence of threatening the Governor with a hunger strike ho might not have taken such a serious view of the petitioner's misconduct.
RatioOfTheDecision	But that act together with the other offence of accepting i llegal gratification must have turned the scales against him and impelled the Commissioner to take the view that an official who was guilty of taking a bribe should not be allowed to remain in service.
RatioOfTheDecision	If a Government servant is charged with specified acts of misconduct, it is not open to the dismissing authority to consider any other acts of misconduct with which he may have been charged in any earlier proceedings which, however, were subsequently dropped and ended in his unconditional reinstatement, If he is punished for these earlier acts which are not included in the latest charge, he will be deemed not to have been given a reasonable opportunity to show cause against the action proposed against him.
RatioOfTheDecision	I, therefore, hold that the order dismissing the petitioner was made without complying with the provisions of Article 311(2) of the Constitution and is illegal.
RulingByPresentCourt	I, therefore, quash the order of the Commissioner of Rohilkhand Division dated 30-4-1958, dismissing the petitioner from service.
RatioOfTheDecision	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must be cle arly understood that the order of dismissal is being quashed on the technical ground that it was passed without complying with the statutory safeguards of Article 311.
RatioOfTheDecision	But I am constrained to observe that the petitioner does not appear to be a person temperamentally fit to be retained in <ORG> service.
RatioOfTheDecision	I have read some of his representations which contain the following epithets or adjectives against <ORG> : 'tyrannical' 'barbaric' and 'sheer callousness'.
Argument	On one occasion he wrote to <ORG>, "Such an attitude does not fit in with the tall talk of secularism and 'social justice' by the Hon'ble Minister of <ORG> and Hon'ble Ministers of <ORG>."
Argument	To the Collector of Pilibhit he once wrote, "It is deplorable 'that you have put in cold storage my complaints against Sri <NAME>'.
Argument	All these offensive words and phrases were used by the petitioner several years after the partition of India when there was no occasion or excuse for such utterances.
Argument	His crowning act of indiscipline  was a notice to launch Satyagraha at the gate of the Government House.
Argument	All these facts prove that the petitioner has no sense of discipline or decorum whatsoever, Though the order of dismissal has been quashed by the <ORG>, it will be open to the Government if they so desire, to issue a fresh show-cause notice on the basis of the inquiry initiated by the charge sheet tinted 11-7-1957.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the circumstances of this case, the parties shall bear their own costs.
