Fact	PETITIONER: MAHABIR AUTO STORES & ORS.
Fact	Vs. RESPONDENT: <ORG>.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT06/03/1990 BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> (CJ) BENCH: <NAME>, <NAME> (CJ) RAY, B.C.
Fact	(J) CITATION: 1990 AIR 1031 1990 SCR (1) 818 1990 SCC (3) 752 JT 1990 (1) 363 1990 SCALE (1)410 CITATOR INFO : F 1991 SC 537 (32,48) D 1991 SC 818 (18) ACT: Constitution of India 1950-- Article 14 , 32 , 226 and 298 -- State organ--Action of entering or not entering into contracts with individual parties--Whether can be questioned in writ jurisdiction.
Fact	HEADNOTE: The appellant-firm had been carrying on the business of distribution and sale of all kinds of lubricants received from the respondent, a statutory corporation, since 1965.
Fact	It is the case of the appellant that it acted as <ORG> distribu- tor of the respondent corporation and that it had been given the Customer No.
Fact	during the course of business.
Fact	The appel- lant claimed that from Feb. 1965 to 27th May, 1983, it had received and uplifted the supply of lubricants/goods eac h year and the total quantity, of lubricants/goods thus lifted had gone upto the extent of 1,11,34854 litres or kgs.
Fact	The respondent suddenly stopped the supply of lubricants to the appellant-firm on 27.5.1983.
Argument	The appellant-firm made several representations to the respondent against the aforesaid action of the respondent but to no use.
Argument	The appellant there- upon filed a writ petition in <ORG> praying for a writ of mandamns directing the respondent to desist from denying or discontinuing the supply of lubricants and there- by save the appellant from being ousted from the business; claim for damages from the date the supply was discontinued was also made.
Argument	Before <ORG>, it was inter alia contended by the appellant that the correspondent that passed between the appellant and respondent and the invoices issued during the long years of business would show that the respondent always treated the appellant as its agent and distributor; sudden stoppage of supply violated the principles of natural jus-  tice.
Argument	It therefore sought the specific performance of the alleged contract.
Argument	The respondent on the other hand ques- tioned the maintainability of the petition as according to it the respondent was not '<ORG>' within the meaning of Art.
RulingByLowerCourt	12 of the Constitution.
RulingByLowerCourt	It further averred that there was no concluded contract by the respondent with the appel- lant and that the work continued under an adhoc arrangement; that the policies of the respondent were governed by the guidelines/directions issued to it from time to time by <ORG> whereunder it was no longer possible to give further supplies to the appellant firm.
RulingByLowerCourt	After considering the rival contentions advanced by the parties <ORG>, dismissed the writ petition.
Argument	The appellant has filed this appeal with special leave.
Argument	Allowing and disposing of the appeal with directions, this <ORG>, HELD: Every action of the <ORG> or of an instrumentality of the <ORG> in exercise of its executive power, must be informed by reason.
Argument	In appropriate cases,  actions uninformed by reason may be questioned as arbitrary in proceedings under Article 226 or Article 32 of the Constitution.
Argument	[826D] The respondent-company <ORG> is an organ of the '<ORG>' or an 'instrumentality of the <ORG>' as contemplated under Article 12 of the Constitution.
Argument	[826F] The <ORG> acts in its executive power under Article 298 of the Constitution in entering or not entering in contracts with individual parties.
Argument	Article 14 of the Constitution would be applicable to those exercises of power.
Argument	Therefore, the action of the <ORG> organ under Article 14 can be checked.
RatioOfTheDecision	[826F] Rule of reason and rule against arbitrariness and dis- crimination, rules of fair play and natural justice are part of the rule of law applicable in situation or action by <ORG> instrumentality in dealing with citizens in a situa- tion like as in the instant case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even though the rights of the citizens are in the nature of contractual rights, the manner, the method and motive of a decision of entering or not en tering into a contract, are subject to judicial review on the touchstone of relevance, and reasonableness, fair play natural justice, equality and non-discrimination in the type of the transactions and nature of the dealing as in the instant case.
RatioOfTheDecision	[827E-F] The dichotomy between rights and remedies cannot be obliterated by any straight jacket formule.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has to be examined in each particular case.
RatioOfTheDecision	[829D] Decision of the State/Public authority under Article 298 of the Constitution, is an administrative decision and can be impeached on the ground that the decision is arbitrary or violative of Article 14 of the 820 Constitution or on any of the grounds available in public law field.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears to us that in respect of <ORG> like Indian Oil <ORG> when without informing the parties concerned, as in the case of the appellant firm on alleged change of policy and on that basis action to seek to bring to an end the course of transaction over 18 years involving large amounts of money is not fair action, espe - cially in view of the monopolistic nature of the power of the respondent in this field.
RatioOfTheDecision	[829F- <CITATION_1327287> and Anr.,  4 SCC 3; <CITATION_1766147> .,  1 SCC 248; <CITATION_1186368> .,  1 SCC 722; <NAME> v. <ORG>,  3 SCC 1 and <CITATION_1058612> - bay,  3 SCC 293, referred to.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.
Fact	1350 of 1990.
Fact	From the Judgment and Order dated 9.2.
Fact	1989 of <ORG> in C.W.
Fact	No.
Fact	1904 of 1983.
Fact	Dr. <NAME>, Dr. <NAME> and <NAME> (N.P.)
Fact	for the Appellants.
Fact	<NAME>, Mrs. <NAME> and <NAME> for the Respondent.
Fact	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by <NAME>, CJ.
Fact	Having heard counsel for the parties and having considered the facts, circumstances and the contentions involved herein, we grant special leave and dispose of the appeal by judgment herein.
Fact	This appeal arises out of the judgment and order of <ORG> dated 9th February, 1989.
Fact	Appellant No.
Fact	1 is  a partnership firm.
Fact	The other four appellants are the partners of the said firm.
Fact	The respondent is a company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act , 1956 and hav- ing, inter alia, one of its regional offices at Janpath, New Delhi.
Fact	The appellants sought in the Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution before <ORG> a writ of mandamus against the respondent directing it to desist from denying or discontinuing the supply of all kinds of lubricants to the appellant No.
Fact	1 and from ousting, black-listing, coercing or pressurising the appellant No.
Argument	1 from the business of deal- ing with all kinds of lubricants supplied by the respondent company to have and to continue to supply all kinds of lubricants to the appellant firm as was done in the past and for the maintenance of status quo existing on the 27th May, 1953 and for payment of necessary damages for the period from 28th May, 1983 till the date of the filing of the writ petition before <ORG> or till the decision of the writ  petition.
Argument	The appellant No.
Argument	1, herein referred to as the firm, is a partnership firm duly registered with <ORG>, Delhi.
Argument	The said firm had been carrying on the distri- bution and sale of all kinds of lubricants and was regis- tered under Sales Tax Act vide Registration no.
Argument	1636 dated 22nd October, 195 1 and has a goodwill of its own, according to the said appellants, in the entire region of Northern India with expertise and knowledge in the distribution and sale of all kinds of lubricants.
Argument	The appellants contend that in the past 32 years the appellant firm had acquired a very good reputation and has earned enviable goodwill in the trade.
Argument	As stated hereinbefore, the respondent company is a statutory body incorporated under the Indian Companies Act , 1956 and have been dealing throughout with the appellant firm since 1965 when the firm became, according to the appellants, its distributor.
Argument	The appellants claim that the said firm had been appointed as <ORG> and the appellant firm hav e been given the Permanent Customer Code No.
Argument	63-01-3115-1022-9-X, according to the appellant.
Argument	The appellants contend that this was done in due course.
Argument	It is the further case of the appellants that the lubricants were released by the respondent company to the said appellant firm on 25th January, 1965 by Invoice No.
Argument	146668 and there- after the firm had promoted the sales of the products of the company successfully inasmuch as from February, 1965 to 27th May, 1983 and the firm had received and uplifted the supply of lubricants/goods each year and the total quantity of lubricants/goods such lifted had gone up to the extent of 1, 11,34,854 litres or kgs.
Argument	The appellants claimed that the said firm is one of the respondent company's <ORG> in Northern India.
Argument	It was the case of the appellants before <ORG> and also before this Court that the said firm had been carrying on business as the Lube distrib- utor of the respondent company and had been selling all kinds of lubricants.
Argument	The appellants conten d that the re- spondent company had recognised the appellant firm during all this period as authorised dealer and a distributor and an agent.
Argument	822  It was the case of the appellants before <ORG> and they had tried to demonstrate with reference to the various documents, annexures etc.
Argument	filed by them that the firm had been always carrying business as <ORG> of the <ORG>, and has been selling all kinds of lubri- cants.
Argument	The appellants further contended that the <ORG> had recognised the firm during all this period as authorised dealer, distributor and agent.
Fact	Certain letters were written by the company directing various customers to contact the firm as an authorised <ORG>.
Fact	This contention was stated before <ORG> as well as before us.
Fact	It iS stated that annexures A-2 to A- 14 were copies of letters written by the company directing various customers to con- tact the firm as an authorised <ORG>.
Fact	Annexure A-15 is an advertisement issued in a specially published souven ir on the occasion of All India Highway Motor Rally held in 1972 sponsored by the <ORG> in which the firm was referred to as the <ORG>'s authorised <ORG>.
Fact	Annexures A- 16 to A-35 are copies of the letters written by the <ORG> to the appellants in relation to the dealing of the appellants as <ORG>.
Fact	There are several other documents on which reliance was placed on behalf of the appellants.
Argument	The firm was treated as authorised dealer and agent of the respondentcompany.
Argument	It was contended that there was a change of policy by the respondent company, and cer- tain documents of the year 1972 were relied upon to indicate that the supply of lubricants was stopped to those Associa- tions and Dealers to whom ad hoc supplies were given, who were merely re-sellers, traders and who did not have written contracts with the <ORG>.
Argument	That was the case of the appel- lant's firm.
Argument	However, the appellants asserted, that the supply was continued to the appellant firm being a dealer and distributor of the Com pany.
Argument	Reliance was placed on Annexures P-28 to P-34 which are the Product Indent-cum- Delivery Orders for various periods issued by the <ORG> to the firm.
Argument	It is stated that in the said Product Indent- cumDelivery Order there was a note indicating "For Condi- tions of Supply Please Turnover ..... ".
Argument	However, in the copies filed with the rejoinder affidavit, there are no terms on the reverse side of the Product Indent-cum-Delivery Order.
Argument	Although the firm has been receiving continuous supply of lubricants from the <ORG>, it was suddenly stopped on 27th May, 1983 by the <ORG>, and it was con- tended that such an action of the <ORG> will have the effect of black-listing the firm and is arbitrary and against the principles of natural justice besides being hit by the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
Argument	The appellant firm, it was contended, had made representations against the aforesaid action of the respondent company but to no use.
Argument	In that background the reliefs mentioned here-in-before were sought from the H igh Court in the application filed under article 226 of the Constitu- tion.
Argument	The respondent-company had raised various objections to the maintainability of the Writ Petition, namely, inter alia, that the <ORG> was not State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution as the <ORG> is registered under the Companies Act , 1956, the Writ Petition was not maintainable as no writ to enforce alleged supply, according to the respondent company, was maintainable and the appro- priate remedy for the appellants was to claim damages for breach of contract or relief for specific performance of contract, if any.
Argument	It was submitted, further, that the firm had not any contract and was seeking to rely on an irregular course of conduct and on an ad hoc arrangement which the company cannot perpetuate in view of the prevailing guide- lines and/or directions received from <ORG> in <ORG>.
Argument	Where in fact there was an actual written agreement the <ORG>'s contractual relation- ship w ith its distributors was also capable of termination forthwith and was only subject to the normal contractual laws and decisions in the realm of contract could not be the subject matter of proceedings under article 226 of the Constitution, it was submitted.
Argument	The appellants case, it was urged by the responde it-company, was at much lower footing.
Argument	The <ORG> however deaied that the firm had even been black-listed and it had never acted in a <NAME> fide, or capricious or arbitrary manner or on any extraneous, or oblique or irrelevant consideration.
Argument	There was no commit- ment, it was suggested, to supply a fixed quantity regular- ly, made to the appellant firm at any stage.
Argument	It appears that the procedure adopted for the supply of lube oil products was that the party requiring supply would write a letter to the <ORG> 'whereupon <ORG> through the Lube section would process the same and would intimate as to how much supply was possible.
Argument	Thereupon the requisition slip would be processed and a delivery  challan/order would be made out.
Argument	The conditions of the Proluct Indent-cum-Delivery Order, inter alia, categorically provided that "<ORG> also reserves the right to cancel your order without any intimation or assigning any reason".
Argument	It further provided that "<ORG> took no responsibility of des- patches/releases of stocks shall be on the basis of avail- ability of stocks."
Argument	There was no other contract in the facts and circumstances of the case, it was urged.
Argument	The letters making the requisitions, the Product Indent-cum-Delivery Orders, the Delivery Challans as also the payment are the only documents constituting the dealing or transactions between the parties.
Argument	The Company had categorically reserved its right to refuse and/or cancel the orders with-  824  out any intimation or assigning any reason and it was per- fectly within its fight to discontinue the said arrangement.
Argument	Several obligations have been provided under the arrangement including, inter alia, price controls, minimum off-take of stocks, safeguards against co ntamination, fight to the inspection and/or unrestricted access, right of account etc.
Argument	It was asserted' that even under the contractual transaction as entered into with <ORG>, the respondent company had fight of termination forthwith for any reason whatsoever and the <ORG>'s fight to terminate was not lettered by the doctrine of reasonableness or doc- trine of natural justice and rights of hearing etc.
Argument	as sought to be put forward on behalf of the appellants.
Argument	It is, therefore, suggested that what was not even contractually recognised should not be artifically given higher status, in the facts and circumstances of the case, as the appellants were seeking to invoke the fight flowing from an utter irregularity specially when the company had been made publi- cally accountable especially when the <ORG> does not act unless through a written contract as also when only autho- rised.
Argument	It was further the case of the respondent that the company was subjected to distribution policies and guide - lines of <ORG> in <ORG>, Government of India.
Argument	They are also bound by the directives to the effect that lubricants are to be sold only to consumers, to those parties who will not sell directly or indirectly to foreign oil companies and no sale should take place to old agents or distributor of foreign oil companies.
Argument	All sales of lubricants must take place to actual consumers or to such small parties who will sell actually to consumers and not to foreign oil company.
Argument	Besides this, <ORG> by the letter beating reference No.
Argument	P-17011/7/82- SUP dated 21st December, 1982 under policy number 201 had communicated to all oil companies that no new distributor was to be appointed for distribution of lubricating oils and there is a ban on such appointments.
Argument	In the facts and the circumstances of the case the Company was, thus, according to the respondent, prevented by the directive/instruction/guidelines of <ORG> to appoint new dealers and distributor s or to formalise any agreement constituting the dealership or distributorship.
Argument	In fact, right since 1972, 24 parties who had ad hoc arrange- ment of supply of lube oils were discontinued, according to the respondent.
Argument	There was no assurance, whatsoever, nor any promise nor any contract or nor any prescribed schedule to supply any quantity of lubricants, as alleged, to the appel- lant or to anybody else.
Argument	It was further asserted in the present case that in view of the ban imposed, no fresh distributors could be appointed nor the oil companies empow- ered to regularise and contract afresh for dealers/distributors in lubricant oils.
Argument	It was further the case of the respondent that the customer code number is given to authorised distributors/dealers only.
Argument	The position was explained that the mode and manner of computerisation of accounts set out in Annexure P-25 and the allotment of customer code number is only for the purpose of identifica- tion and not for any other purpose nor to designate the firm as an authorise d Lube distributor.
Argument	The Company had denied that the Code 01 was allotted only to dealers/agents as alleged.
Argument	The Code 01 was applicable to all re-sellers, where a further sale is a necessary concommitment of the first sale.
Argument	Certain particulars were given how 01 is given and it was stated in the case of four parties the partnership was terminated because of the new policy.
Argument	<ORG> after exhaustively dealing with the rival contentions came to the conclusion that viewed from diverse angles, the appellants had sought the specific performance of certain alleged contract.
Argument	It was also held that the said alleged contract was neither precise, nor definite nor certain nor was capable of being made certain.
Argument	It was not certain, in this case, as to how much goods were required and for how long were these required and at what considera- tion, these were all uncertain and vague, it was submitted.
Argument	It was held by <ORG> that for a Writ of mandamus the appellants should have a legal right to enforce the performa nce of alleged duty by the respondent and since no right was shown to exist by the appellants for selling the continuous supply of the lubricants whatsoever indefinitely for future and no corresponding legal duty was imposed on the respondent to supply, the Writ of mandamus was not maintainable.
RulingByLowerCourt	In those circumstances the Writ Application was dismissed as not maintainable.
Fact	Aggrieved thereby the appellants have come up to this Court, as mentioned hereinbefore.
Fact	We have heard learned counsel Dr. <NAME> as well as Mr. <NAME> exhaustively.
Fact	Further affidavits were filed and documents produced before us.
Argument	It was sought to be urged by Dr. <NAME> that the respondent was an instrumentality of <ORG> and as such the question involved was whether an instrumentality of <ORG> can suddenly, arbitrarily, unrea- sonably, without any relevant factors and without any notice and determination or proceeding stop supplies of products which, according to him, had been supplied more than-1 crore 11 lacs litres/kg of product co ntinuously and uninterrupted- ly over a period of more than 18 years.
Argument	Dr. <NAME> suggest- ed that the respondent <ORG> is an instrumentality of <ORG> under Article 12 of the Constitution.
Precedent	From the nature of the business carried on by the appellants, it was manifest to us that the supply of the lubricants of the type with which the respondent had a monopoly, could be carried on by the appellants only as the supplier from the reSpondent.That business was not possible otherwise.
Precedent	The respondent had monopoly in that respect.
Precedent	This aspect is important.
Precedent	The respondent firm was supplying from 1965 to 1983 large quantities of lubricant oil and from 1983 onwards till 1989 supplies were continued on the interim order of <ORG>.
Precedent	Supplies were stopped suddenly on 27th May, 1983.
Precedent	There is no dispute that no intimation was given, no notice was given, no query or clarification sought for and there was no adjudication as such.
Precedent	It was held that the appellant firm was not entitled to supply, the stoppage of suppl y in May 1983 was, therefore, bad.
Argument	The appellant further contended that the case of the respondent-company <ORG> was never made known or revealed prior to the Counter Affidavit in <ORG> of the appellants.
Argument	The conten- tion urged on behalf of the appellants was that this is patent violation of all canons of natural justice, fair play and reasonableness.
Argument	It is submitted that natural justice and reasonableness of the procedure are enshrined under Article 14 of the Constitution.
Argument	It is well settled that every action of the <ORG> or an instrumentality of the <ORG> in exercise of its executive power, must be informed by reason.
Argument	In appropriate cases, actions uninformed by reason may be questioned as arbitrary in proceedings under Article 226 or Article 32 of the Con- stitution.
Argument	Reliance in this connection may be placed on the observations of this <ORG> in <CITATION_467021> .,  3 SCC 457.1t appears to us, at the outset, that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the respondent-company <ORG> is an organ of t he <ORG> or an instrumentality of the <ORG> as contemplated under Article 12 of the Constitution.
Argument	The <ORG> acts in its executive power under Article 298 of the Constitution in entering or not entering in contracts with individual par- ties.
Argument	Article 14 of the Constitution would be applicable to those exercises of power.
Argument	Therefore, the action of <ORG> organ under Article 14 can be checked.
Argument	<CITATION_467021> , (supra) at p. 462, but Article 14 of the Constitution cannot and has not been construed as a charter for judicial review of <ORG> action after the con- tract has been entered into, to call upon the <ORG> to account for its actions in its manifold activities by stat- ing reasons for such actions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In a situation of this nature certain activities of the respondent company which consti- tuted <ORG> under Article 12 of the Constitution may be in certain circumstances subject to Article 14 of the Constitu- tion in entering or not entering into contracts and must be reasonable and taken only upon lawful and rele vant consideration, it depends upon facts and circumstances of a particular transaction whether heating is necessary and reasons have to be stated.
RatioOfTheDecision	In case any right conferred on the citizens which is sought to be interfered, such action is subject to Article 14 of the Constitution, and must be reasonable and can be taken only upon lawful and relevant grounds of public interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	Where there is arbitrariness in <ORG> action of this type of entering or not entering into contracts, Article 14 springs up and judicial review strikes such an action down.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every action of the <ORG> executive authority must be subject to rule of law and must be informed by reason.
RatioOfTheDecision	So, whatever be the activity of the public authority, in such monopoly or semi-monopoly dealings, it should meet the test of Article 14 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	If a Governmental action even in the matters of entering or not entering into contracts, fails to satisfy the test of reasonableness, the same would be unrea- sonable.
Precedent	In this connection reference may be  made to <CITATION_1327287> .,  4 SCC 3; <CITATION_1766147> .,  1 SCC 248; <CITATION_1186368> .,  1 SCC 722; R.D.
Precedent	Shetry v. International Airport Authority of India & Ors.,  3 SCC 1 and also <NAME> and sons v. <ORG>,  3 SCC 293.
Fact	It appears to us that rule of reason and rule against arbitrariness and discrimination, rules of fair play and natural justice are part of the rule of law applicable in situation or action by <ORG> instrumentality in dealing with citizens in a situation like the present one.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even though the rights of the citizens are in the nature of contractual rights, the manner, the method and motive of a decision of entering or not entering into a contract, are subject to judicial review on the touchstone of relevance and reasonableness, fair play, natural justice, equality and non-discrimination in the type of the transactions and nature of the dealing as in the present case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The existence of the power of judicial review however depends upon the natur e and right involved in the facts and circumstances of the particular case.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is well settled that there can be "malice in law".
RatioOfTheDecision	Existence of such "malice in law" is part of the critical apparatus of a particular action in administrative law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed "malice in law" is part the dimension of the rule of relevance and reason as well as the rule of fair play in action.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was submitted that the respondent had continuously, uninterruptedly, consistently and repeatedly dealt with the appellant and recognised the appellant, and had treated it as a dealer.
RatioOfTheDecision	On that basis the appellants and his family had acted for 19 years.
Fact	To substantiate these assertions, certain documents and samples were referred to by the appellants.
Fact	Our attention was drawn to large number of invoices, cash memos and to the customer code No.
Fact	013115 allotted to the appellant.
Fact	It was submitted that the prefix 01 applied only to dealers, dis- tributors etc.
Fact	The defence of the respondent was the absence of written contract which was the standard fo rm and not appointment letters.
Argument	The appellant contended that the appel- lants were selling <ORG> products without written contract.
Argument	It was further asserted that the <ORG> has sought to change its stand and say that it does not deal with person without contract but according to the appellants, has issued letters of appointment to some of them and these persons, according to the appellants, sell lubes.
Argument	It was submitted that this change of stand was an afterthought.
Argument	It was further stated that letters, in some cases, cannot lead to an exclusion of all others to whom letters of appointment had not been issued.
Argument	It is submitted that in the fairness <ORG> could have and should have issued such letter of appointment to <ORG> also and should have considered the case of the appellant-firm.
Argument	It was submitted that <ORG> has always treated lube and non lube products on the same basis, without dis- tinction.
Argument	This distinction which was sought to be urged before us, it was submitted, was an after thought and not justified.
Argument	The appellant contended that the <ORG>'s purported reliance upon the guidelines, was not justified.
Argument	Further- more, the guidelines were not mandatory or binding.
Argument	These use directory words like "may".
Argument	More importantly, these exclude all those who are part of the existing network and apply for fresh appointment of new distributors.
Argument	<ORG> was part of the existing network and was not to be inducted as a new distributor and the appellant-firm falls within the existing network and has always been so treated continuously and uninterruptedly from 1965 to 1983, it was the case of the appellants.
Argument	It was contended that the appel- lant-firm was entitled to relief, inter alia, on grounds of promissory estoppels, unreasonable and arbitrary exclusion, and discriminatory treatment under Article 14 of the Consti- tution.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> on behalf of the appellants sought to urge that the appellant firm had never been appointed as <ORG>.
Argument	There is no letter of intent, letter of ap- pointment, much less letter at  all.
Argument	Ad-hoc supplies of Lube products alone had been made to the appellant from 1965 onwards.
Argument	The procedure adopted for the supply of lube products was that the appellant would write a letter to the company whereupon <ORG> would process the same.
Argument	The policy decision in December, 1982 indicated that no new Distributor for Lube products would be appointed and no new products would be distributed either through the existing net-work, of existing <ORG> or to authorised dealers of other products such as, petrol, SKO, LDO and HSD.
Argument	It was submitted that as a result of the policy it was not the appellant alone to whom the supplies were discontinued.
Argument	There was similar discontinuance of supplies to 24 other parties whose names were given in the counter affidavit.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> submitted that in private law field there was no scope for applying the doctrine of arbitrariness or <NAME> fides.
Argument	The validity of the action of the parties have to be tested, it was urged on behalf of the res pondent, on the basis of "right" and not "power".
Argument	A plea of arbitrariness/<NAME> fides as being so gross cannot shift a matter tailing in private law field to public law field.
Argument	According to Mr. <NAME> to permit the same would result in anomalous situation that whenever <ORG> is involved it would always be public law field, this would mean all redress against the <ORG> would fall in the Writ Jurisdiction and not in suits before Civil Courts.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are of the opinion that in all such cases whether public law or private law rights are involved, depends upon the facts and circumstances of the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The dichotomy between rights and remedies cannot be obliterated by any straight jacket formula.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has to be examined in each particular case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> sought to urge that there are certain cases under Article 14 of arbitrary exercise of such "power" and not cases of exercise of a "right" arising either under a contract or under a Statute.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are of the opinion that that would depend upon the factual matrix.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having conside red the facts and circumstances of the case and the nature of the contentions and the dealings between the parties and in view of the present state of law, we are of the opinion that decision of the State/public authority under Article 298 of the Constitution, is an administrative decision and can be impeached on the ground that the decision is arbitrary or violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India on any of the grounds available in public law field.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears to us that in respect of Corpo- ration like <ORG> when without informing the parties con- cerned, as in the case of the appellant firm herein on alleged change of policy and on that basis action to seek to bring to an end the course of transaction over 18 years involving large amounts of money is not fair action, espe- cially in view of the monopolistic nature of the power of the respondent in this field.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, it is necessary to reiterate that even in the field of public law, the relevant persons concerned or to be affected, should be ta ken into confi- dence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether and in what circumstances that confidence should be taken into consideration cannot be laid down on any straight jacket basis.
RatioOfTheDecision	It depends on the nature of the fight involved and nature of the power sought to be exer- cised in a particular situation.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that there is discrimination between power and fight but whether the <ORG> or the instrumentality of a <ORG> has the right to functign in public field or private field is a matter which,in our opinion, depends upon the facts and circumstances of the situation, but such exercise Of power cannot be dealt with by the <ORG> or the instrumentality of the <ORG> without informing and taking into confidence, the party whose fights and powers affected or sought to be affected, into confi- dence.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such situations most often people feel aggrieved by exclusion of knowledge if not being taken into confi- dence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such transaction should continue as an administrative decision with the organ of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be contractual or statut ory but in a situation of transaction between the parties for nearly two decades, such procedure should be followed which will be reasonable, fair and just, that is, the process which normally be accepted to be followed by an organ of the <ORG> and that process must be conscious and all those affected should be taken into confidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having regard to the nature of the transaction, we are of the opinion that it would be appropriate to state that in cases where the instrumentality of the state enters the contractual field, it should be governed by the incidence of the contract.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that it may not be necessary to give reasons but, in our opinion, in the field of this nature fairness must be there to the parties concerned, and having regard to the large number or the long period and the nature of the dealings between the parties, the appellant should have been taken into confidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Equality and fair- ness at least demands this much from an instrumentality of the <ORG> dealing with a right of the <ORG> no t to treat the contract as subsisting.
RatioOfTheDecision	We must, however, evolve such proc- ess which will work.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, we direct that the case of the respondent be put to the appellants, and let the respondent authorities consider afresh the submissions made by the appellant firm, namely, that the existing arrangement amounts to a contract by which the distributorship was continued in case of the appellant firm without any formal contract and further that the new policy of the <ORG> introduced in December, 1982 would not cover the appellant firm and as such the appellant should continue.
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be sufficient, having regard to the nature of the claims, for the respondent authority to consider this aspect after taking the appellant firm into confidence on this aspect.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nothing further need be stated or required to be done and we give no 'directions as to whether reasons should be recorded or hereinafter should be given.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the facts and circumstances, it is not neces- sary to give oral hearing or record the reasons a s such for the decision.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision should be based on fair play, equity and consideration by an institution like <ORG>.
RulingByPresentCourt	It must act fairly.
RulingByPresentCourt	We direct accordingly that the present arrangement to continue until the respondent company gives the considera- tion on the lines indicated above and makes the decision.
RulingByPresentCourt	It is not our decision which is important but a decision on the above basis should be arrived at which should be fair, just and reasonable--and consistent with good govern- ment--which will be arrived at fairly and should be taken after taking the persons concerned whose rights/obligations are affected, into confidence.
RulingByPresentCourt	Fairness in such action should be perceptible, if not transparent.
RulingByPresentCourt	The Judgment and the Order of <ORG> are, there- fore, set aside and the direction and order as aforesaid are substituted and the application made to <ORG> is disposed of on the aforesaid terms.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the facts and circum- stances of the case, there will be no order as to costs.
RulingByPresentCourt	<NAME> Appeal al- lowed.
