Fact	<NAME>, <NAME>1.
Fact	In this case fourteen persons were tried by <ORG> of this <ORG>, constituted under Section 6(b) of the Indian Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1908, for an offence punishable under Section 121A , Indian Penal Code (conspiring to commit certain offences against the State), and also with abetting the murder of Mr. <NAME>.
Fact	<ORG> acquitted all the accused on the latter charge.
Fact	The majority of the <ORG> (Sir <NAME>, <NAME>, and <NAME>, J.)
Fact	convicted the first seven and the fourteenth accused of the offence charged under Section 121-A and acquitted the remainder.
Fact	The third Judge of <ORG> (<NAME>, J.)
Fact	convicted the first, second, sixth and fourteenth accused and acquitted the remainder.
Fact	The late Advocate-General has given a certificate under Clause 26 of the Amended Letters Patent of 1865 to the effect that the decision of the <ORG> on certain specified points of law requires farther consideration.
Argument	The present Advocate-General, who, as Public Prosecutor,  appeared for the Crown at the trial, raises a preliminary objection that the Letters Patent do not authorize the grant of a certificate in a case tried by a Special Bench, appointed under the Indian Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1908.
Argument	His content on is that cases under the Act must be dealt with in accordance with the special procedure prescribed by the Act and that there is no provision in it for a review of judgment either on a certificate from the Advocate-General or otherwise.
Argument	The Act however, does not profess to lay down complete rules of procedure: the ordinary procedure has to be followed except in so far as it is modified by the Act: there is nothing in the Act to modify the ordinary procedure in this particular respect; Clause 26 of the Letters Patent gives powers to <ORG> on the Advocate General's certificate to review in every case mentioned in Clause 35 of the Letters Patent, i.e., in "any criminal trial before the Courts of original criminal jurisdiction which may be constituted by one o r more of the judges of the said <ORG>."
Argument	The present trial satisfies these conditions and is therefore open to review on a certificate granted by the Advocate General.
Argument	2.
Fact	The points of law which are certified as requiring further consideration are stated as follows in the certificate of the Advocate-General:  1.
Fact	That in my judgment the opinion of the majority of the <ORG> that the evidence of an accomplice need not be corroborated in material particulars before it can be acted upon, and that it would be open be the <ORG> to convict on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice if the <ORG> was satisfied that the evidence wag true, requires to be further considered; and it requires to be further considered whether Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act rend with Section 114 , illustration (b), does not merely intend to lay down that a conviction upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice is not illegal where the presumption of untrustworthiness attaching to the evidence of an accomplice is reb utted by special circumstances.
RulingByLowerCourt	2.
RulingByLowerCourt	That in my judgment the opinion of the majority of the Court that the previous statements of an accomplice can legally amount to corroboration of the evidence given by him at the trial should be further considered.
Argument	3.
Argument	That in my judgment the opinion of the majority of the Court that the statements made by prosecution witness No 6 and prosecution witness No.
Argument	12 to prosecution witness No.
Argument	31 were made to an authority legally competent to investigate the facts within the meaning of Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act, should be further considered.
Argument	4.
Argument	That in my judgment the opinion of the majority of the Court that the statements of prosecution witness No.
Argument	6 and prosecution witness No 12 to prosecution witness No.
Argument	31 wore not rendered inadmissible by reason of the provisions of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, should be further considered.
Argument	5.
RatioOfTheDecision	That in my judgment the opinion of the learned Judges that, while the statements made by a person to a police officer in the  course of an investigation and taken down in writing may not be proved by the production of the writing, they may be proved by oral evidence, requires to be further considered.
RatioOfTheDecision	3.
Fact	The facts of the case, so far as is necessary to understand the questions raised, may be briefly stated as follows:  The accused are alleged by the prosecution to have conspired at various places between January 1910 and 17th June 1911 with certain persons not before the <ORG>, viz.
Fact	with one <NAME>, who is proved to have shot himself on the 17th June 191.1, immediately after murdering Mr. <NAME> (who was then District Magistrate of Tinnevelly), one <NAME>, who is now dead (the case for the <ORG> being that he committed suicide) and one <NAME> who has absconded, and also with three others, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, who were given a pardon under the usual conditions and taken as approvers and called as witnesses (Nos.
Fact	6, 12 and 17) for the prosecution in this case.
Fact	The approvers have given evidence as  to a certain treasonable society founded by the first accused, <ORG>, of which they were all members.
Fact	They have also given evidence of meetings of the society at Tenkasi and Tutieerin and elsewhere attended by the accused, and there is no question, but that, if the accused wore present at these meetings and took the "blood oath" as alleged by the approvers, they are guilty.
Fact	"The chief evidence against the accused is the evidence of the several approvers.
Fact	They are admittedly accomplices.
Fact	The questions of law that have been raised relate to the legal validity of an accomplice's evidence, if uncorroborated, and to the admissibility and legal effect of certain statements made by two of the accomplices (<NAME> and <NAME>) in this case prior to the trial.
Fact	The following are the circumstances under which the statements were made: Mr. <NAME> was murdered for political reasons by <NAME> on 17th June, and <NAME> immediately afterwards shot himself.
Fact	When his house at Shencottah was searched next day (18th) , certain letters were found which showed that <NAME> (prosecution witness No.
Fact	6) was in communication with him; so on the evening of the next day (19th) immediately after the arrival of Mr. <NAME>, the Deputy Inspector General of <ORG>), a party of police was despatched to Tubicorin to search his house.
Fact	The party was in charge of Mr. <NAME>, Assistant Superintendent of Police, a gazetted officer of three years' standing and of <NAME> (prosecution witness No.
Fact	31), an Inspector of <ORG> who had just arrived with Mr. <NAME> from Madura, Having arrived at Tuticorin the party surrounded the house of <NAME> about two hours after midnight and sealed it with a view to search it after daybreak.
Fact	<NAME> was awakened and told that his house would be searched in connection with the murder and ha was asked if he know anything about it, <NAME> then offered to tell all he knew, and his statement was thereupon taken and recorded in the Inspector's  note book.
Fact	On information given by <NAME>, the house of <NAME> (prosecution witness No.
Fact	12} was searched the next day, and he in like manner made a statement to <NAME>, which was recorded by him.
Fact	Three days later, both these men made statements substantially to the same effect) to Mr. <NAME>, the Magistrate, which he recorded under Section 164 , Criminal Procedure Code .
Fact	At the trial before <ORG>, which begin in the following September and went on for some months, <NAME> and <NAME> were examined as witnesses for the prosecution and gave evidence, as already stated, involving not only their own guilt, but also the guilt of several of the accused who took the "blood oath" at the treasonable meetings held at Tenkasi and Tuticorin.
Fact	In order to corroborate this evidence of the accomplices, given at the trial, the prosecution relied on the statements recorded by the Magistrate, Mr. <NAME>.
Fact	They also called the Inspector, <NAME>, to give evidence of the statements made  to him by the accomplices.
Fact	The defence objected to this evidence as inadmissible but the majority of <ORG> held that the Inspector might give oral evidence of the statements made to him, but could not use the writing in his note-book as evidence.
Fact	The learned Judges of <ORG> state in their judgments that the extent to which, and the conditions under which, the evidence of the accomplices should be acted upon was the subject of much argument and contention before them, and their judgments show that they considered the various questions raised with the greatest care and came to their conclusions after a full examination not only of the codified law of India, but also of the case law of the courts in England and India relating to the questions raided.
Fact	4.
Fact	I will now turn to the five points of law which the Advocate-General certifies should be further considered.
Fact	5.
Fact	The first is thus stated-  The opinion of the majority of the court that the evidence of an accomplice need not be corrobora ted in material particulars before it can be acted upon, and that it would be open to the court to convict on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice if the Court was satisfied that the evidence was true, requires to be further considered; and it requires to be further considered whether Section 138 of the Indian Evidence Act read With Section 114 , illustration (6), does not merely intend to lay down that a conviction upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice is not illegal where the presumption of untrustworthiness attaching to the evidence of an accomplice is rebutted by special circumstances."
Fact	The substantive provision of the Indian Code Law is contained in Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which, in explicit terms, declares that "an accomplice shall be a competent witness against an accused person; and a conviction is not illegal merely because it proceed a upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice."
Precedent	But with this section it is also necessary to bear in mind Section 11 4 which provides that "the court may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events, human conduct and public and private business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case."
Precedent	To assist the courts in applying the general words of the section, various illustrations are appended to if;.
Precedent	One of these relates to accomplices, and it is stated as follows: "The court may presume that an accomplice is unworthy of credit, unless he is corroborated in material particulars.
Precedent	But the court shall also have regard to such facts as the following, in considering whether such maxim does or does not apply to the particular case before them; A, a person of the highest character, is triad for causing a man's death by an act of negligence in arranging certain machinery.
Precedent	B, a person of equally good character, who also took part in the arrangement, describes precisely what was done, and admits and explains the common carelessness of A and  himself."
Precedent	And again, "a crime is committed by several persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	A, B and 0, three of the criminals, are captured on the spot and kept a part from ouch other.
RatioOfTheDecision	Each gives an account of the crime implicating D, and the accounts corroborate each other in such a manner as to render previous concert highly improbable."
RatioOfTheDecision	In my opinion there is nothing in the illustration (b) to Section 114 which overrides, or renders nugatory, the plain and explicit declaration contained in Section 133 , or which requires us to hold that the evidence of an accomplice must always, and in all circumstances, be regarded as unworthy of credit unless it is corroborated in material particulars, or which requires us to hold that it is not open to the court to act on such evidence, even when the court believes it to be perfectly true.
RatioOfTheDecision	The very term of the illustration itself appear to be intended to guard against such an interpretation.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words are the court may presume" (not "the Court shall presume") "that an accomplice is unworthy of cr edit, unless he is corroborated in material particulars."
RatioOfTheDecision	But it then adds a caution to show that the presumed unworthiness is not a rule of universal application.
RatioOfTheDecision	It styles the presumption "a maxim," not a rule of law, and says, "but the court shall also have regard to 'certain facts' in considering whether such maxim does or does not apply to the particular case before it."
RatioOfTheDecision	It then refers to the case of a person of the highest character giving evidence of an offence committed by fine negligence of him salt and another parson of equally high character.
RatioOfTheDecision	The witness is an accomplice, and ho is not corroborated in any particular, still less in material particulars yet the <ORG> should have regard to various circumstances, viz., the high character of the witness, and of the accused and the nature of the offence alleged, and would be at liberty to refuse to draw any presumption against the credibility of the witness, even though his evidence stood alone and uncorroborated.
RatioOfTheDecision	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	Judges do, no doubt, ordinarily rega rd the evidence of accomplice with great suspicion, and rightly so, for reasons which are so manifest and so often stated that it is unnecessary to restate them hare, and Judges do ordinarily require corroboration in material particulars before they will act on the evidence of an accomplice.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is the duty of the Judge to explain to the jury the taint and infinity which ordinarily attach to the evidence of an accomplice, and to remind them that they may presume that his evidence is unworthy of credit unless corroborated in material particulars.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it is also his duty to refer to any circumstances or facts (such as those referred to in the illustrations to Section 114 ) which show that the presumption should not be drawn in the particular case or which rebut the presumption, if drawn, and ho should instruct them that if, having scrutinized the evidence of the accomplice with care and caution, and having considered it in the light of the circumstances in which it was given, and all other circumstances, bending  to show its truth or falsehood, they believe it to be true, they should act upon it, even though there may be no corroboration of it in the strict sense of the word, but that if they are not satisfied of its truth they should refuse to act upon it.
RatioOfTheDecision	7.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is, in effect, how the majority of the Special Benin have laid down the law.
Precedent	In my opinion they have correctly stated the law as laid down in the Indian Evidence Ant, and in the Indian and English cases quoted by them: <ORG>, v. <NAME> (1878) I.L.R.
Precedent	1 Mad.
Precedent	394, <CITATION_514169> (1904) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Mad.
Precedent	271 at p. 290, per <NAME>, J, Queen-Empress v. <NAME> (1887) I.L.R.
Precedent	9 All.
Precedent	528 at p. 654, per <ORG> v. <NAME> (1861) 9 <NAME>.
Precedent	Cex.
Precedent	C.C.
Precedent	32 per <ORG> <ORG>, v. <NAME> (1883) 15 <NAME>.
Precedent	C.C.
Precedent	291, per <NAME>, C.J and <NAME>.
Fact	v. <NAME> (1908) 2 K.B.
Fact	680, per Lord <NAME>, C.J.
Argument	8.
Argument	The suggestion made in the latter party of the Advocate-General's first point, if I understand it aright, is that the presumption of untrustwort hiness must always, and in all circumstances, first be drawn, and the evidence cannot in any case be acted upon unless "special circumstances" are found which rebut the presumption.
Argument	I chink this way of stating the law is less accurate than that adopted by the majority of <ORG> and might possibly mislead juries by leading them to think that circumstances affecting their judgment should be technically divided into two classes, special and non-special or ordinary and that unless a circumstance could be technically labelled "special "it should not be at all considered by them.
Argument	Section 114 speaks simply of "facts" not special circumstances" and the caution attached to illustration (b) merely says "the court shall also have regard to such facts as the following "not special" facts or "special" circumstances.
RatioOfTheDecision	Any fact which is admissible as evidence, and which is duly proved, may, in my opinion, be considered for what it is worth, without attempting to classify it as a "special" or non-special fact.
RatioOfTheDecision	In t his connection, however, it may be abated that the majority of <ORG> do, in fact, refer to a number of what may well be called special circumstances, which powerfully influenced their opinion as to the credibility of the accomplice witnesses.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, therefore, difficult to understand what practical purpose was to be served in the present case by the further consideration of the first question raised by the certificate of the Advocate-General.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
Argument	In dealing with the first point in the Advocate-General's certificate, Mr. <NAME> have <NAME>, on behalf of the accused, desired to argue that the view of the majority of <ORG> as to what constitutes "material particulars" in illustration (b) to Section 114 is incorrect.
Argument	We, however, were unanimous in holding that no such question was raised in the certificate of the Advocate-General and that it was not open to the accused's pleader to argue any question of law not raised in the certificate.
Argument	Mr. Govindaragbava <NAME> contended that as soon  as a certificate was granted in regard to any point of law the whole case was opened up for consideration under Clause 26 of the Letters Patent.
Argument	That clause is as follows: "On its being certified by the said Advocate-General that, in his judgment, there is an error in the decision of a point or points of law decided by the <ORG> of original criminal jurisdiction, or that a point or points of law which has or have been decided by the said <ORG> should be further considered, the said High <ORG> shall have full power and authority to review the case, or such part of it as may be necessary, and finally determine such point or points of law, and thereupon to altar the sentence passed by the <ORG> of original jurisdiction, and to pass such judgment and sentence as to the said High <ORG> shall seem right."
RatioOfTheDecision	I do not think that these words can be held to open up the whole case as if on appeal, for Clause 25 enacts that there shall be no appeal.
RatioOfTheDecision	The grant of the certificate no doubt gives the <ORG> "power and authority  to review the case or so much of it as may be necessary," that is, in my opinion, "necessary" in order to determine the point or points of law raised, This is clear from the words "and finally determine such point or points of law" which follow the word "necessary"; after the point or points of law have been finally determined, then, or to use the word in Clause 26 "thereupon," the <ORG> may alter the sentence and pass such judgment and sentence as may seem right and the <ORG> may, of course, then go into the case so far as is necessary in order to enable it to do this correctly.
Precedent	When the case has reached that stage, then the <ORG> has to be guided by Section 167 of the Indian Evidence Act which enacts that "the improper admission or rejection of evidence shall not be ground of itself for a new trial or reversal of any decision in any case, if it shall appear to the <ORG> before which such objection is raised that, independently of the evidence objected to and admitted, there was sufficient evidence to justi fy the decision, or that, if the rejected evidence had been received, it ought not to have varied the decision," This view is in accordance with the judgments of <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ, in the case reported in <CITATION_1968750> (1908) I.L.R.
Precedent	32 Bom.
Precedent	111 (F.B.
Precedent	), where the question is fully discussed.
Precedent	10.
Precedent	Turning now to the second point in the Advocate-General's certificate, it is stated as follows: "In my judgment the opinion of the majority of the Court that the previous statements of an accomplice can legally amount to corroboration of the evidence given by him at the trial, should be further considered."
Precedent	There were two sets of previous statements of <NAME> and <NAME> admitted at the trial, viz., (1) their statements to Inspector <NAME> and (2) their statements, four and three days respectively later, to the same effect to the Magistrate, Mr. <NAME>, recorded by him, under Section 164 Criminal Procedure Code.
Precedent	I think that the opinion of the majority of <ORG> on the question of their  admissibility is right.
Precedent	The law on the subject is contained in Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which reproduces in a simplified form the provision in Section 31 of Act If of 1855 and enacts that "in order to corroborate the testimony of a witness, any former statement made by such witness relating to the same fact, at or about the time when the fact took place, or before any authority legally competent to investigate the fact may be proved" This section, which differs widely from the English law, expressly states that a former statement made by a witness may if made under the conditions stated in the section, be proved in order to corroborate the evidence of the witness at the trial No exception is made in the section, or elsewhere in the Act, so as to exclude such former statements in the case of a witness who is an accomplice.
Precedent	It was contended in the argument that the general rule as to the admissibly of former statements laid down in Section 157 is limited in the case of accomplices by a spe cial rule to be inferred from illustration (6) to Section 114 It may, however, be doubted whether such a method of reasoning is not contrary to accepted canons of interpretation.
Precedent	It seems unreasonable to hold that the express rule of law stated in Section 157 can be limited by a maxim which is not of universal application.
Precedent	The validity of the suggested reasoning depends on an assumption that the <ORG> must always and in all circumstances, presume that an accomplice is unworthy of credit, whereas we have seen in dealing with the first point certified by the Advocate-General that there may be circumstances in which the <ORG> would be justified in not drawing the presumption.
Precedent	The illustration it self gives an instance of such a case.
Precedent	In such a case it is impossible to see any reason why the evidence of the accomplice witness should not be corroborated by a previous statement to the same extent and subject to the same conditions as in the case of a witness who was not an accomplice I do not think that there is an ything in the Indian Evidence Act to exclude the evidence of accomplices from the plain and express rule in Section 157 , nor can it be suggested that "corroborate" is used in Section 157 in a different sense from that in which it is used in illustration (b) to Section 114 .
RatioOfTheDecision	The former statement of an accomplice is, therefore, legally admissible to corroborate his testimony at the trial and the weight to be attached to it, or, in other words, how far it does really corroborate the evidence given at the trial must vary with the facts of each case.
RatioOfTheDecision	No hard-and-fast rule, capable of mechanical application, can be lad down.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the great majority of cases, it would, no doubt, be found to be merely the repetition of tainted evidence affording no ground for believing it to be true, and, therefore, adding nothing whatever to its value.
Precedent	On the other hand, if there was evidence, or even a suggestion, put forward by the defence that the evidence given by the witness at the trial was the result of recent influences broug ht to bear upon him, it would be most important to be able to prove that the witness had made statements to the same effect as his evidence at the trial long before the influences relied on by the defence had been brought to bear upon him.
Precedent	For example, take the accomplice, <NAME>, in the present case.
Precedent	He gave evidence at the trial involving several other parsons beside himself, and stating various particulars about the treasonable meetings which they attended.
Precedent	If the prosecution proposed to corroborate that evidence by proof of a former statement made months after his arrest, and when the police had collected their other evidence, and had, in fact, completed the scheme of the case to be proved against the accused, it is obvious that the former statement would add no strength to, would be no real corroboration at all, of the evidence of the witness at the trial But, is not the case very different when, as was found by the majority of <ORG>, it appears that <NAME> first told the same story at a  time, and under such circumstances, as to entirely negative the idea that It was either falsely concocted by himself or suggested to him by the police; when it appears that the story told was not what the police wanted at that time, nor was such as was supported by the evidence then in their hands, nor was such as would have been concocted by <NAME> either of his own motion, or in consultation with <NAME> or <NAME>, if he was anxious to protect himself or them from prosecution for complicity with <NAME> in them under of Mr. <NAME>, nor was such as <NAME>' previous relations with the parsons then named would render probable?
Precedent	Is it not unreasonable to say that those and similar matters referred to by the majority of <ORG> ought not to have been considered in judging whether <NAME> was a truthful witness or not?
Precedent	So, too, if there was reason to think that owing to the lapse of time the memory of a witness at the time of the trial could not be wholly rolled on, the fact that he had  made a statement to the same effect when the facts were fresh, in his memory would be highly relevant in corroboration of the evidence at the trial.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rule, then, would seem to be that the former statements are legally admissible, and may be considered for what they are worth, but that the weight to be attached to them depends entirely on the facts of each case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The point raised in the Advocate-General's certificate is whether such statements "can legally amount to corroboration of the evidence given at the trial."
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not clear whether this mews "are legally admissible as corroboration "or whether it means "can legally amount to corroboration in material particulars within the meaning of illustration (b) to Section 114 ."
RatioOfTheDecision	If it means the former, I have stated the answer above.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it means the latter, I do not thick that the question is one that arises in this case,  11.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the argument before us it was assumed by the pleaders for the defence, that <NAME> and <NAME> were found by the majority of t he Court to be unworthy of credit by reason of their being accomplices, and that it was, therefore, necessary to find that they were corroborated in material particulars within the meaning of Section 114 , illustration (b) before their evidence could be relied on, and that the former statements made by them ware used as such corroboration.
RatioOfTheDecision	I do not think that this is a correct view of the judgment of the majority of <ORG>, I do not any where find that they arrived at the conclusion that the approvers were untruthful witnesses.
Precedent	On the contrary they distinctly arrived ah the conclusion that they were truthful witnesses.
Precedent	In arriving at this conclusion they state that they were influenced by the demeanour of the witnesses, and by the way in which they stood the test of cross-examination.
Precedent	They say that each of those witnesses "was subjected to the moat; rigorous and searching cross-examination at the hands of one after another of the ten learned Counsel and vakils appearing for the defence for periods  extending over two or three days" and that though the cross-examiners had the advantage of being able to compare their evidence at the trial with three prior statements (viz., those made before <NAME>, and before Mr. <NAME> and +before the Committing Magistrate) ''the prolonged cross-examination did not succeed in breaking down the evidence of any of the three approvers," and conclude by saying, "we do not consider that there is anything in the evidence of the witnesses inconsistent with its substantial truth."
Precedent	They had previously referred to the circumstances under which the approvers made their first statements, especially the intrinsic evidence of truthfulness to be derived from the very nature of the facts stated.
Precedent	They pointed out that the circumstances under which the statements ware first made strongly negatived the idea that they were the result either of concoction by the witnesses themselves or of suggestion by the police; that the story told was not what the police wanted, and that the pers ons implicated were not those that would probably have been implicated if the police had suggested the statements or wished to obtain evidence to fit in with the letters then in their hands, They also pointed out that the story bold was not such as would have been concocted by <NAME> either by himself or in consultation with <NAME> or <NAME> in order to save themselves from prosecution for complicity with <NAME> in the murder of Mr. <NAME>.
Precedent	They also considered that the conduct of <NAME> in not destroying the highly seditious literature found in his house, and his previous relations with the persons accused as conspirators, negatived the idea of the story having been concocted by the witnesses.
Precedent	In view of all the circumstances in which the statement were made and the inferences to be drawn from the nature of the statements and the conduct of the witnesses themselves, the majority of <ORG> found it "impossible" to believe that the statements were 'tutored'" by the police or "conced e" by the witnesses themselves.
Precedent	If the evidence was not "tutored" by the police or "concocted" by the witnesses themselves, there would be no reason for regarding it as other than truthful in the ordinary sense, that is truthful so far as the witnesses them selves knew and believed, though, of course, the witnesses might make an unintentional mistake like any other honest witnesses This view is not inconsistent with the fact that the majority of <ORG> acquitted the 9th and 13th accused, though they were apparently implicated by the approvers, <NAME> and <NAME> respectively.
Precedent	It will be seen that they were acquitted, not because the approvers were found to be intentionally giving false evidence against them, but because there was a doubt in each case as to whether the accused was the parson really referred to by the approver as present at the meetings.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	It is clear, then, that the majority of <ORG>, for reasons stated, came to the conclusion, that the accomplice witnesses were tru thful witnesses and were not unworthy of credit so as to require corroboration in material particulars, if that phrase is to be interpreted (as some of the oases do interpret it) as requiring that the corroboration should be by the evidence of independent witnesses.
Precedent	We have already seen, in dealing with the first point raised by the Advocate-General, the corroboration is not legally necessary if there are circumstances which lead the court to the conclusion that the witness though an accomplice is a truthful witness.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	The question, then, "whether the previous statement of an accomplice can legally amount to corroboration in material particulars of the evidence given at the trial within the meaning of illustration (b) to Section 114 " is one that is not expressly raised by the certificate of the Advocate General, nor do I think that it is one which it is necessary to consider in order to decide the questions raised by him, or the correctness of the judgment of the majority of the Special Bench.
Precedent	I have alre ady shown how the former statements have been used in their judgment to corroborate the evidence of the witnesses given at the trial, and I have expressed the opinion that they were admissible under Section 157 and were properly used.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	If, however, it is necessary in this case to determine whether the phrase "'material particulars" in illustration (b) to Section 114 is to be regarded, as in some sense, a technical expression implying corroboration by independent or untainted evidence, I am unable to go so far and to say that as a matter of law the previous statement of an accomplice can never amount to corroboration in material particulars.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	The pleader for the defence relies on the cases reported in Reg, v. Malapabin Kapana (1874) 11 Bom.
Precedent	H.C.R., 196 and <CITATION_333658> (1884) I.L.R.
Precedent	10 Calc.
Precedent	970..
Precedent	In the former it was said, at page 197, that the previous statement of an accomplice "can scarcely be said to answer the purpose for which juries are advised by Judges to require the evidence of an accom plice to be confirmed."
Precedent	In the latter, the Judges refer with approval to the Bombay case, but add at page 974, It is not necessary for us to consider whether the rule should be extended as far as to exclude a statement made before arrest but we have no doubt at all that the exact correspondence in details of several statements made by an approver in the course of a trial is not corroborative evidence, such as, we ordinarily require to make it safe to convict any particular prisoner."
Precedent	It is clear that the Judges in that case did not lay down any such absolute rule as is now suggested by the pleaders for the defence.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	If there are some circumstances in which a prior statement may amount to sufficient corroboration, we cannot say as a matter of law that a prior statement can never be corroboration in material particulars though no doubt, in the great majority of oases, it will be found that the prior statements do not add anything to the credibility of the evidence given at the trial.
Precedent	As I have already said,  how far a prior statement does corroborate evidence given at the trial is a matter to be determined by the jury (or, where there is no jury, by the Judge), on a consideration of all the facts of the case including the time when, and the circumstances in which, the former statement was made, and the facts related in the statement considered in their relation to the knowledge of the speaker at that time and all the surrounding circumstances.
Precedent	17.
Precedent	It may be added that very little light as to the application of Section 157 can be gained from a consideration of English cases, since the English law has no rule similar to that in Section 157 and is generally unfavourable to the admission of former statements of a witness to corroborate his evidence at the trial, though permitting it in certain oases.
Argument	18.
Argument	The third, fourth and fifth points certified by the Advocate-General relate to three objections that were taken to the admissibility of the statements made by the accomplices, <NAME> and <NAME>, to <NAME> <NAME>.
Argument	It may be stated at once that the admissibility or inadmissibility of these statements cannot make any difference in the decision of the present case, since the majority of <ORG> who admitted the statements expressly say that they find it impossible to believe that the statements were either tutored or concocted, even if the witnesses' statements to Veerara<NAME> are discarded and if regard is paid only to their statements recorded, four and three days respectively later, to the same effect, by Mr. <NAME>, the Magistrate, under Section 164 , Criminal Procedure Code , the admissibility of which is not, and cannot be, disputed.
RatioOfTheDecision	As, however, the questions are raised in the Advocate-General's certificate and are of great general importance, I will state my opinion in regard to each of them.
RatioOfTheDecision	19.
RatioOfTheDecision	The objection referred to in the fifth point depends on the construction of Section 162 of the Criminal Procedure Code and may be very shortly dealt with.
RatioOfTheDecision	All the Judges of <ORG> are  agreed as to the proper construction of that section.
Precedent	The same construction was placed upon it in the recent case of <CITATION_390792> (1909) I.L.R.
Precedent	36.
Precedent	Calc.
Precedent	28l.
Precedent	The words of the section are clear.
Precedent	I agree with the conclusion arrived at by all the Judges of <ORG>, and for the reasons stated in their judgments.
Precedent	20.
Precedent	The third point may also be shortly disposed of.
Precedent	The question is whether <NAME> was an authority "legally competent;" within the meaning of Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act, to investigate the facts in relation to which the former statements of <NAME> and <NAME> were made, that if, the facts relating to the murder of Mr. <NAME>.
Precedent	It was contended before us that the words "competent to investigate" must refer exclusively to the persons competent to hold the police investigation into an alleged offence under chapter 14 of the Criminal Procedure Code .
RatioOfTheDecision	But I do not think that this view is correct.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words in the Evidence Act are perfectly general, "competent to  investigate the fact "-Can it be supposed for instance that a statement made before a civil court relating to some fact, the existence of which the <ORG> wag legally competent to try, and otherwise relevant under Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act in a subsequent criminal trial, could be shut out on the ground that the word "investigate" would not include a trial by a civil court?
RatioOfTheDecision	I take it that the answer must be in the negative.
Precedent	It is unfortunate that there was no adequate inquiry before the Special Bench as to how far Inspector <NAME> was an authority legally competent to investigate the facts relating to the murder of Mr. <NAME> The Deputy Inspector-General of his <ORG>, Mr. <NAME>, was a witness, but be was never asked any question at all as to the Inspector's competency to investigate.
Precedent	The result is that we are obliged to deal with the case on vary imperfect information as to the facts.
Precedent	On the whole, however, I am inclined to hold that the Inspector was legally competent to investiga te the facts relating to Mr. <NAME>'s murder He was an Inspector of <ORG>, a branch of the <ORG>, whose work is not confined to any particular district, but which was created "to assist in the investigation of crimes which are of such a special character that the local officers are unable to deal with them adequately without help."
Precedent	(G.O.
Precedent	No.
Precedent	913, <ORG> dated 2nd July 1908.)
Precedent	He was directed by the head of his own department (the Deputy Inspector-General) and by the local District Superintendent of <ORG> to search certain houses, including the house of <NAME> at Tuticorin, in connection with Mr. <NAME>'s murder.
Precedent	It is not contended that his deputation for this duty was other than legal or that he was not legally competent to conduct or take part in the searches.
Precedent	I take it that conducting the searches was an integral part of the investigation, and legal competency to conduct the searches, carried with it legal competency to do all things properly incidental to, and c onnected with, the searches, and included the listening to any statements relating to the murder or these who book part in it, made by the persona whose houses were being searched.
Precedent	21.
Precedent	I do not think that the words "investigate the fact" in Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act should be construed in a narrow sense so as to restrict competency to the <ORG> officer who, under chapter 14 of the Criminal Procedure Code , is charged with the investigation of an offence.
Precedent	I am, therefore, not prepared on the evidence before me to dissent from the view of the majority of the Special Bench that the Inspector was an officer legally competent to investigate the facts relating to Mr. <NAME>'s murder within the meaning of Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act.
Precedent	A suggestion was thrown out that "the fact" in this case must be the conspiracy, not the facts generally relating to the murder of Mr. <NAME>, and it was argued that in that view, the Inspector could not investigate it without the order of a magistrate, as it (the  conspiracy) is a non cognizable offence.
Precedent	This argument, I think, proceeds on an incorrect view.
Precedent	The Inspector was engaged in and upon the investigation of facts relating (so Mr. <NAME>'s murder, and the statement was made to him by the person whose house was being searched and it was made as a matter "relating" to the murder.
Precedent	It cannot be regarded as relating only to the conspiracy and not at all to the murder.
Precedent	22.
Argument	It remains to notice the fourth point in the Advocate-General's certificate which is as follows "--"That in my judgment the opinion of the majority of the court, that the statements of prosecution witness No.
Argument	6 and prosecution witness No.
Argument	12 to prosecution witness No.
Argument	31 were not rendered inadmissible by reason of the provisions of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, should be further considered," Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act states that "No confession made to a Police officer shall be proved as against, a person accused of any offence," The words of Section 25 in their plain and ordinar y meaning seem to me to render the statements made by the accomplices to the <ORG> Inspector, <NAME> inadmissible.
Argument	The statements are confessions: they were made to a <ORG> officer and it is now sought to use them as against some of the accused in this case.
Argument	The majority of <ORG> point out that in Section 26 , the confession (when made not to a <ORG> officer but while in his custody) is expressly made inadmissible only as against the person who made it, but may be proved as against other persons and observes that as the "mischief" of the two sections is the game, Section 25 also should be understood as only excluding a confession made to a <ORG> officer from being used as against the person making it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is difficult to accept this view without putting too great a strain on the plain language of section '25.
RatioOfTheDecision	It certainly is difficult to see any satisfactory reason why the scope of the two sections should be different, but that is hardly a sufficient reason for not construing each s ection to as to give effect to its plain language.
RatioOfTheDecision	It seems to be especially undesirable to extend the language of Section 25 beyond its plain meaning when the effect of doing so might tend to encourage those corrupt practices of the police in regard to working for confessions which it is the policy of the law to prevent.
Precedent	There is much force in the observation of <NAME>, J., in the case reported in <CITATION_1001022> (1910) 12 Bom.
Precedent	L.R.
Precedent	899, that a confession which is inadmissible against the person making it, ought a fortiori to be inadmissible against another parson implicated by it The case in <CITATION_1547294> (1985) I.L.R.
Precedent	9 Bom.
Precedent	131, cited by Mr. <NAME> for the prosecution, is hardly an authority for his contention, as the present question did not arise in that case.
Precedent	The point that <ORG>, was enforcing was that Section 25 did not refer to the use of a confession in other than a criminal proceeding, that an enquiry under Section 523 , Criminal Procedure Code , was not a criminal proceeding, and th at a confession could, therefore, be used as an admission in an enquiry under that section.
Precedent	23.
Precedent	Since writing the above, I have had the advantage of perusing the judgments which my learned brothers, <NAME> and <NAME>, <ORG>., are about to pronounce on this question.
Precedent	I am much impressed by the force of the argument that may be drawn against my view from reasoning founded on the history of Sections 24 to 26 which are embodied first in the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1861 and aferwards transferred without material alteration to the Indian Evidence Act of 1872, but I am still inclined, on the whole, to the opinion that effect must be given to the language of Section 25 , and that it renders the statements of <NAME> and <NAME> to Inspector <NAME>, inadmissible.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	But as I have already pointed out this can make no difference in the decision of this case, since the majority of <ORG> expressly stated that it is impossible to believe that the evidence of the sixth it and twelfth pros ecution witnesses was either 'tutored" by the police or connected by the witnesses themselves, even if the with' statements to <NAME> are discardal and if regard is paid only to their statements made a few days later to the magistrate, the admissibility of which is not, and cannot be, disputed.
Precedent	In other words the learned Judges were prepared to act on the evidence of these witnesses as truthful, apart from any corroboration derived from their statements to the Inspector.
Precedent	In these circumstances, it is not open to us as a court of review to go into the facts and consider whether the learned Judges ought or ought not to have arrived at that conclusion.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	I would therefore dismiss the petitions that have been presented asking us to sat aside the convictions of the accused.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	26.
Precedent	This was a case tried before three Judges of this Court, under Act XIV of 1908, and comes before us on a certificate of the then Advocate-General pursuant to Clause 26 of the Letters Patent that certain points of  law which in his opinion were decided by the Judges, or, a majority of them, require to be further considered.
Precedent	Objection was taken at the outset by the Officiating Advocate General that Clause 26 does not apply to criminal trials before <ORG> under Act XIV of 1908, Reference was made to Clause 24 conferring extraordinary original criminal jurisdiction on this <ORG> and it was contended that the accused before the <ORG> were not "persons brought before it on charges preferred by the Advocate-General or by any magistrate or other officer specially empowered by the <ORG> in that behalf" so as to come within that clause, but were committed to this <ORG> for trial by a magistrate acting under the powers conferred upon him by Section 6 of Act XIV of 1908.
Precedent	Assuming that to be so and that the jurisdiction of the <ORG> does not arise under Clause 24 but under an Act of the Indian Legislature to which the provisions of the Letters Patent are subject, I am still of opinion that the objection fails, becaus e clauses 25 and 26 of the Letters Patent, as to points of law being reserved by the <ORG> or certified by the Advocate General, are perfectly general in their terms and, in my opinion, apply equally to all criminal trials before this <ORG> whether in the exercise of its ordinary or extraordinary original criminal jurisdiction under clauses 22 and 24 of the Letters Patent or of any future statutory original criminal jurisdiction that may be conferred upon it by a competent legislature, further, Act XIV of 1908, nowhere says that clauses 25 and 26 of the Letters Patent are not to apply to trials under the Act and the presumption is strongly against any intention on the part of the Indian legislature to modify by implication provisions of the Letters Patent issued under an Act of Parliament.
Precedent	I think therefore we were' bound to hear and dispose of the application for review, however much our so doing may tend to defeat the object of this special legislation, which was to sure the speedy trial of these cases, or  may further interfere with the business of the <ORG> by withdrawing five Judges from their ordinary duties.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	The Advocate-General's certificate has been granted under that part of Clause 26 which empowers him to certify that "a point or points of law which has or have been decided by the said <ORG> shall be further considered."
Precedent	The certificate purports to have been granted upon certain representations made to the learned Advocate-General and does not: show whether the written judgments of the <ORG> were before him, They are before us and we have to satisfy ourselves in the first place as to what was actually decided by the majority or the full <ORG> as the case may be with reference, to each of the points of law and as to whether the decision was erroneous.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	The points before us arise on the Indian Evidence Act , I of 1872, and, as the learned Officiating Advocate-General has argued, it is undoubtedly our duty in construing that Act, which is in the nature of a Code, to follow the language of the sect ions of the Act, so far as they are clear, and, only in cases of ambiguity or obscurity, to fall back upon the English law upon which it was based.
Precedent	29.
Precedent	The certificate as to the first point is as follows:  That in my judgment the opinion of the majority of the <ORG>, that the evidence of an accomplice need not be corroborated in material particulars before it can be acted upon, and that it would be open to the <ORG> to convict on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice if the <ORG> was satisfied that the evidence was true, requires to be further considered; and it requires to be further considered whether Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act read with Section 114 , illustration (6), does not merely intend to lay down that a conviction upon the Uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice is not illegal where the presumption of untrustworthiness attaching to the evidence of an accomplice is rebutted by special circumstances.
Precedent	30.
Precedent	As to this, I am of opinion that the proposition that it would be open to t he <ORG> to convict on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice in the sense and in the terms in which it is stated in the judgment of the majority of the Judges is correct and does not amount to an error in law.
Precedent	Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act authorises the <ORG> to make certain presumptions of fact.
Precedent	Nine well-known maxims are there given as illustrations of the section, the-second of which is "the <ORG> may presume that an accomplice is unworthy of credit, unless be is corroborated in material particulars."
Precedent	They are all presumptions which may naturally arise, but the legislature by the use of the word "may" instead of "shall," both in the body of the section and in the illustrations, shows that the <ORG> is not compelled to raise thorn but 13 to consider whether, in all the circumstances of the particular case, they should be raised, To make this clearer still, there is the additional provision: ''Bat the <ORG> shall also have regard to such facts as the following, in considering whether such m axims do or do not apply to the particular case before it," and then as to each of these maxims, instances are given of facts in which the maxim is inapplicable, and, in the case of the maxim now in question, there are two such instances.
Precedent	Now, if Section 114 stood alone, I do not see how it could be said that it was not open to the Judges of fact in the particular case, whether judge or jury, to apply or not apply any of these maxims, having regard to all the facts of the case before them; and this is expressly stated by the draftsman, the late Sir <NAME>, in his Indian Evidence Act , at page 174, "Finally, it declares in Section 114 that the <ORG> may it: all cases whatever draw from the facts before it whatever inferences it thinks just."
Precedent	But as regards the particular maxim, Section 114 does not stand alone, because Section 133 provides that "a conviction is not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice."
Precedent	If the law was so laid down in the Act, it was,  I have no doubt, because it was the English law as understood at the time and had been the law over since the decision of <NAME>'s case (1787) l Leach Cr.
Precedent	L 464 by the twelve Judges at the close of the eighteenth century and because the draftsman and the legislature were not prepared with anything to substitute for it.
Precedent	They were not of course unaware of the well-established practice of the courts in England and India according to which, to use the language of Sir <NAME> in Article 121 of his Digest of the Law of Evidence published in 1876, "when the only proof against a person charged with a criminal offence is the evidence of an accomplice, uncorroborated in any material particular, it is the duty of the Judge to warn the jury that it is unsafe to convict any parson upon such evidence, though they have a legal right to do so."
Precedent	The adoption of the practice in England may be traced in <CITATION_190642790> (1829)1 M. & M. 326., <NAME> v. Noakes(1882) 5 C. & P. 326, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1834) 6 C. & P., 388, Re x v. <NAME> (1834) 6 C. & P. 595, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1885) 7 C. & P. 168, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1836) 7 C. & P. 270, and <NAME> v. <NAME> (1837) 8 C. & P. 106, where it is said to deserve all the reverence of law.
Precedent	In these cases the Judges told the jury they ought not to convict on the evidence of accomplices, whether one or more, unless it was confirmed or corroborated not only as regards the offence generally but as regards the particular accused, but the decision was invariably left to the jury; and in Reg.
Precedent	v. Mullins (1848) 7 St. Tr.
Precedent	N.S.
Precedent	1111, <ORG>, pointed this out and observed that these directions to the jury were not directions on points of law which the jury were bound to adopt but observations respecting facts to assist the jury in their endeavour to judge of the facts.
Precedent	Then in Reg.
Precedent	v. Stubbs (1855) Dearsly C.C.
Precedent	555 <ORG> held that the omission of the <ORG> to warn the jury that they ought not to convict one of the accused, as to whom the evidence of the accomplices was n ot corroborated, was only a departure from the usual practice, which was again stated by the Judges, and did not involve any question of law on which <ORG> could review the case under 11 and 12 Vict., Cap.
Precedent	78.
Precedent	The law was laid down precisely in the same way by <ORG> in Reg.
Precedent	v. Boyes (1861) 9 Cox.
Precedent	C.C.
Argument	32 and by Lord <NAME>, L.C.J., sitting with <NAME>, M.R.
Argument	and <NAME>, J., at <ORG> for the trial of <NAME>, Reg.
Argument	v. <NAME> (1881) 16 Cox.
Precedent	C.C.
Precedent	291 and by <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., in <ORG>) 9 Q.B., 415.
Precedent	Under the larger powers now given by the Act, 1907, the <ORG> may now treat a failure to comply with the well-established practice of directing juries as to how the evidence of accomplices is to be regarded as having involved a miscarriage of justice within the meaning of Section 4 , Rex v. Tate (1908)2 K.B.
Precedent	680; but this in no way affects the authority of the above decisions; nor are they affected by the fact stated by Sir <NAME> <NAME> in his "Ciruupatantal Evidence," at page 365, that in one case Baron <NAME> and in another he himself withdrew the case from the jury when there was no corroboration and directed an acquittal.
Precedent	In India at any rate such a courses would be a direction at variance with the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	31.
Precedent	As regards the practice in India it has been observed that the danger of acting on the uncorroborated evidence of accomplices is even greater than in England; and before the passing of the Indian Evidence Act it was held by a Full Bench of the Calcutta High Court in <NAME> Case (1866) 5 W.R. Cr.
Precedent	R., 80 on a review of the English authorities that a failure to direct the jury in accordance with the practice was a misdirection on which the conviction could be set aside.
Precedent	With regard to the effect of the Indian Evidence Act on the practice: I cannot altogether agree with the observation which has been sometimes made that the practice was embodied in Section 114 , illustration (b).
Precedent	Th e legislature might, of course, have enacted that no one should be convicted on the evidence of accomplices "unless corroborated in some material particular by evidence, implicating the accused," as in 48 and 49 Vict., Cap.
Precedent	69; but this would have been a serious departure from the law as previously understood both in England and in India and in my opinion the legislature were not prepared to go so far but were content with enacting the maxim as ordinarily applicable, whilst leaving it to be applied or not according to the circumstances of the particular case.
Precedent	They must, however, I think, have contemplated that the law as declared rather than newly enacted in the section would continue to be applied under the safeguard of the practice; and it is not, I think, surprising that the practice should have continued unaffected by the passing of the Act, as appears from the Indian oases which are fully reviewed in the judgment of Mr. Justice <NAME>.
Precedent	The practice, it must be borne in mind, was one of advising th e jury not to convict on the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice, leaving it to them whether to follow the advice or not, a liberty they undoubtedly possess under Section 114 read with Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act.
Precedent	The same degree of liberty must necessarily be reserved where the <ORG> itself is the judge of fact instead of the jury.
Precedent	In such a case the Judge cannot be required consistently with the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act to direct himself not to convict on the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice.
Precedent	All that he can be required to do is to exercise extreme caution in departing from such a well-established rule of guidance.
Precedent	In such a case, the learned Judges constituting the majority lay it down that it is the duty of the <ORG> to boar in mind that it is tainted evidence, to acrutinize it with the utmost care, accept it with the greatest caution, consider it in the light of the circumstances in which it is given and in the light of all the other circumstances in the case of which  evidence is legally admissible.
RatioOfTheDecision	Then if you believe it, act on it even if there is no corroboration in the strict sense of the word.
Precedent	This direction seams to me it) accordance with the law laid down by this Court in Reg.
Precedent	v. Ramasami Padayachi (1878) I.L.R.
Precedent	1 Mad.
Precedent	394 and <CITATION_514169> (1904) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Mad.
Precedent	271, If the alternative proposition as to special circumstances put forward in the certificate of the learned Advocate-General means more than this and involves an enquiry as matter of law in each case whether there are special circumstances entitling the Court to act on uncorroborated evidence I am unable to agree with it.
Precedent	I am of opinion that in the judgment of the majority on this point there is no error of law entitling us to interfere under Clause 26 of the Letters Patent.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	The second point is whether the previous statements of an accomplice can legally amount to corroboration of the evidence given by him at the trial.
Precedent	Reading the certificate with the judgment of the majority of the Court it ap pears to me that the question for our consideration is whether such previous statements if proved can be regarded as amounting to corroboration of the accomplice in material particulars within the meaning of Section 114 , illustration (6) of the Indian Evidence Act , as it is scarcely disputed that under Section 157 such statements are admissible in corroboration.
Precedent	I do not think that the Courts in England have ever attempted to define exhaustively what will amount to corroboration-a question which appears to be rather one of fact depending on a consideration of all the circumstances of the case.
Precedent	In India, the evidence of previous statements made in certain circumstances is admissible under Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act to corroborate the testimony of the witness.
Precedent	It is therefore admissible evidence in corroboration of the evidence even of a witness who is an accomplice, and I am not prepared to say as the Advocate-General wishes us to say that the previous statements of an accomplice cannot legally a mount to corroboration of the evidence given by him at the trial.
Precedent	I think that previous statements admissible as corroboration under Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act may or may not amount to sufficient corroboration and that whether they will he so or not depends on the facts and circumstances of the particular case.
Precedent	That previous statements may in some cases amount to corroboration where, as in the present case, there are the previous statements of several accomplices was pointed out in <NAME> Case (1866) 5 W.R. Cr.
Precedent	R., 80, the leading Indian authority.
Precedent	Sir <NAME>, at page 84 observed but if two or three persons should be apprehended at different places, at long distances from each other, and should each confess and give a similar account as to the persons associated with them in a particular dacoity, the statement of each, if made under such circumstances as not to raise a presumption of collusion might be proved in corroboration of his evidence; such statement being admissible as corr oborative evidence under Act II of 1855, Section 31 " which is the same as Section 157 of the present Act.
Precedent	It is in my opinion clear that in the opinion of the learned Judge the previous statements of the accomplices in those circumstances would amount to sufficient corroboration of their evidence, and this is also in accordance with the dictates of good sense, In England, previous statements of witnesses whether accomplices or not, are not generally admissible in evidence; but when admissible in exceptional cases as in regard to assaults on women, they are admitted, it is now settled, as evidence of corroboration-<NAME> v. <NAME> (1905) 1 K.B.
Precedent	55l and it is clear from the recent decision of <ORG> in R. v. Ellssom (1911) 76 J.P. 38 that in the opinion of the <ORG> such statements, if properly before the <ORG>, may, when considered in the circumstances in which they were made, amount to strong corroboration of the evidence of an accomplice.
Precedent	Taken by itself the previous statement may of cou rse be as tainted and untrustworthy as the evidence in the box and not supply any real corroboration; but on the other hand, the circumstances in which it was made may afford strong corroboration of its truthfulness apart from the credibility of the accomplice, as in the case put by Sir <NAME> which has row been inserted as an illustration to Section 114 (6) of the Indian Evidence Act .-" A crime is committed by several persona.
RatioOfTheDecision	A, B and C, three of the criminals, are captured on the spot and kept apart from each other.
RatioOfTheDecision	Each gives an account of the crime implicating D, and the accounts corroborate each other in such a manner as to render previous concert highly improbable."
RatioOfTheDecision	In such a case the previous statements not only corroborate each other but also the sworn statements in the box, and they are evidently regarded as confirming the (tainted evidence of the accomplices and making it right to act on that) evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that they are given in the section rather as facts rendering corroboration,  unnecessary than as amounting themselves to corroboration but this, it appears to me, is a distinction which makes no real difference, as the Court is invited to believe the evidence and act upon it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The previous statements received and acted upon by the majority of the learned Judges in this case, both those made to the Inspector and those made to Mr. <NAME>, were in their opinion of this character and in my opinion the learned Judges wars justified in receiving and acting upon thorn as corroboration, They have not in my opinion misdirected themselves at all in this respect, and that being 90, we have no authority, sitting here not as an Appellate Court, but as <ORG> under the Letters Patent, to call in question the conclusions they have arrived at on evidence properly before them.
Precedent	With regard to the decisions in <ORG>, v. <NAME> (1874) 11 Bom.
Precedent	H.C.R.
Precedent	196, and <CITATION_333658> (1884) I.L.R.
Precedent	10 Calc.
Precedent	970, I do not think they can be taken as laying down us matter of law that previous statemen ts of accomplices cannot amount to sufficient corroboration of their testimony, and if they do I think they go too far, A direction to that effect by a Sessions Judge was made the ground of an appeal against acquittal by <ORG> in 1898, Queen-Empress v. <NAME> (1898) 2 C.W.N.
Precedent	702, but the case went on another point.
Precedent	33.
Precedent	The third point is whether the previous statements of the sixth and twelfth witnessed for the prosecution to Inspector <NAME>, the thirty-fist witness, ware admissible as not made to an authority legally competent to investigate the fact within the meaning of Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act If; is not suggested that when the statements were made the Inspector was competent to investigate the charge of conspiracy, a non-cognizable offence, on which the accused have been convicted, but it was contended for the prosecution but denied for the defence that he was competent to investigate the murder of Mr. <NAME> and that it was in the due cours e of that investigation that these statements were elicited.
Precedent	Whether this would be sufficient depends on the construction of the words "legally competent to investigate the fact" in Section 157 .
Precedent	Sections 156 and 457 deal with the corroboration of witnesses as to relevant facts, and reading the two sections together, I think Section 157 should be read thus as if the words in brackets were there.
Precedent	"In order to corroborate the evidence of a witness [as to a relevant fact any former statement made by the witness as to the same fact before any authority competent to investigate the fact may be proved."
Precedent	It seems to me that under the section the evidence of witnesses in the box as to relevant facts may be corroborated by proof of previous statements as to the same facts, if made before an authority legally competent to investigate such facts, It cannot, I think, be questioned that an Inspector investigating the murder of Mr. <NAME> was legally competent and bound in the course of his investigation to elicit the statem ents now in question; and this being so, I think the provisions of the section were so far satisfied; and that to make the previous statements admissible it was not necessary that the Inspector should have been legally competent to investigate the conspiracy of which the accused have been convicted.
Precedent	As to whether the Inspector to whom the statements were made was in fact legally competent to investigate the murder of Mr. <NAME>, Section 156 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that any officer in charge of a police station "may, without the order of a magistrate, investigate any cognizable case which a Court having jurisdiction over the local area within the limits of such station would have power to inquire into or try" and Section 551 provides that "Police-officers superior in rank to an officer in charge of a police-station may exercise the same powers, throughout the local area to which they are appointed, as may be exercised by such officer within the limits of his station."
Precedent	The learned Judges formin g the majority have found that there can be no question that the Inspector is a police officer superior, in rank to an officer in charge of a police-station, and also that as a member of <ORG>, the ''local area" within the meaning of Section 551 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to which he was appointed, was the Presidency of Madras.
Precedent	The word '<ORG>' is undoubtedly used as equivalent to the Presidency of Madras, which is one of the Provinces of British India; and it is a matter of common knowledge that the department was constituted in pursuance of recommendation 35 of <ORG>, 1902-1903, which is as follows: "That there should be constituted in each province <ORG> for the purpose of collecting and distributing information regarding organized crime, and to assist in the investigation of crimes when they are of such a special character as to reader their assistance necessary."
Precedent	Such investigation would necessarily t ake place in any party of the Presidency in which these crimes should occur, and in these circumstances I think the Presidency may well be hold to be the "local area" to which the seven Inspectors in the department on whom the work of investigation must necessarily fall are appointed.
Precedent	The assassination of a Collector-a crime happily unprecedented in the history of the Presidency for over fifty years-was obviously a crime of such a special nature as to render the assistance of the department necessary.
Precedent	The Inspector in this case had come down with the head of his department in connection with this murder, I think his evidence and the G. 0.
Precedent	No 913, Judicial, dated 2nd July 1908, which has been put in defending the relations between the officers of <ORG> and the ordinary police officers in the various districts of the Presidency, was evidence sufficient to support the finding-though not perhaps so full as if this objection had been taken when the statements were tendered in eviden ce and had not been reserved for the argument after the evidence for both Hindu had bean closed.
Precedent	I do not think that these ate matters which we should go into sitting here as a Court of error under Clause 26 of the Letters Patent I am also inclined to think that the word "investigate" in Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act cannot be read as limited to investigation under the Code of Criminal Procedure, that the Inspector had been brought down from Madras specially to investigate the murder of Mr. <NAME>, and that he was not only legally competent but under a duty to investigate it and in the course of such investigation to record the statements now in question, In the result, I hold there is no ground for interference under this head.
Precedent	34.
Precedent	The two remaining points certified by the Advocate-General, whether confessions by an approver to a police officer are not excluded both by Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act and Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure may, I thick, conveniently be dealt with toge ther and the latter first, because as pointed out in <CITATION_1474388> (1884) I.L.R.
Precedent	6 All.
Precedent	509 (F.B), these three sections ( Sections 25 and 26 of the Indian Evidence <ORG>, 1872, and Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898), which were designed to guard against improper practices on the part of the police in obtaining statements from witnesses and confessions from the accused first made their appearance together as Sections 145 (now 162), 148 and 149 of the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861; and Sections 148 and 149 of that Code have since been transferred without material alterations to the Indian Evidence <ORG> , 1872, where they appear as Sections 25 and 26 ; and as observed by Lord <NAME> in Mayor of Portsmouth v. <NAME> (1885) L.R.
Precedent	10 A.C. 364 p. 371, "Where a single section of an <ORG> is introduced into another <ORG>, it must be read in the sense which it bore in the original <ORG> from which it is taken, and consequently it is perfectly legitimate to refer to all the rest of that <ORG> in order to  ascertain what the section meant, though those other sections are not incorporated in the now Act."
Precedent	This it seems to me is the proper method to apply even where, as here, the sections have been introduced into a measure of codification, and I am unable ho attach much force to arguments depending on the position of Sections 25 and 26 in the Indian Evidence Act , As to whether the previous statements of the approvers to the police were inadmissible under Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, as previous statements of witnesses to the police, the Code of 1861, Section 145 (now Section 162 ) provided for the oral examination of witnesses by the police and permitted these statements to be taken down in writing "provided that any statement so reduced into writing shall not to signed by the person making id, nor shall it be treated as part of the record or used as evidence."
Precedent	Such statements were no doubt usually taken down in writing, and there does not appear to have been any attempt made to give ora l evidence of them to corroborate the witnesses under the Code of 1861, 1872 or 1882, which in this respect ware not materially different.
Precedent	By Act X of 1886, Section 6 , Section 162 of she Coda of Criminal Procedure was altered by inserting into the section the word "shall" as shown in brackets.
Precedent	"No statement, other than a dying declaration made by any person to a <ORG> officer in the course of an investigation under this chapter shall, if reduced to writing, be signed by the person making it, or (ahull) be used as evidence against the accused."
Precedent	As thus altered the section appears to go still further and to make statements to the police inadmissible whether they wore taken down in writing or not, In 1898, an attempt was made by the prosecution to use the previous statement to the police of an approver to corroborate him, but the statement was rejected as inadmissible under Section 162 , Queen-Empress v. <NAME> (1898) 2 C.W.N.
Precedent	702; and if the section, as it then was, had not been altered,  there can be no doubt the statements now in question would have been inadmissible.
Precedent	In the Code of 1898 which came into force in 1899, the provisions of Section 162 were altered.
Precedent	The main alterations as pointed out in <CITATION_1218193> (1906) I.L.R.
Precedent	33 Calc.
Precedent	1023, was made for the purpose of setting ad rest the controversy as to the circumstances in which the accused were entitled to have access to and make use of such previous statements of the witness to contradict them- a course the police had endeavoured to prevent by taking them down in their diaries which are privileged under Section 172 .
Precedent	This was dealt with by a new proviso entitling the accused to require the <ORG> to refer to such previous statements, and if the <ORG> thinks it expedient in the interests of justice to direct copies to be given to the accused.
Precedent	But as against this concession to the accused, the body of the section was altered in such a way as to modify the absolute exclusion of such statements as evidence for the prosecution, contain ed in the Code of 1882 as modified in 188G.
Precedent	The present section runs thus: "No statement made by any person to a <ORG> officer in the course of an investigation under She chapter (XIV) shall, if taken down in writing, to signed by the person making it, nor shall such writing be used as evidence."
Precedent	Here it is only the writing that is excluded.
Precedent	The change of language must, I think have been deliberate and I am constrained to agree with the decision of the learned Judges, and with <CITATION_390792> (1909) I.L.R.
Precedent	80 Cal.
Precedent	381, and the judgment of <NAME>, J., in <NAME> v. King-Emperor 7 A.L.J.
Precedent	468, that oral evidence of such statements is not inadmissible.
Precedent	On this points I am of opinion that there was no error in law.
Precedent	35.
Precedent	Going back now to the fourth point whether the statements are inadmissible, not under Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure as previous statements of witnesses to the police, but as confessions made to the police under Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act which provides that "no  confession made to a <ORG> officer shall be proved as against a person accused of an offence," the question is, does the section mean that no confession to a <ORG> officer by an accused person is to be used against him, or that it is not to be used against others either?
Precedent	The next Section 26 relating to confessions made by accused persons in the custody of the police unless in the immediate presence of a magistrate renders them inadmissible as against such persons.
Precedent	The two learned Judges forming the majority boo no reason why any difference should be made between the two Sections, and read Section 25 as also relating to confessions made by a person accused of an offence to the police, and as rendering such confessions inadmissible only as against them, <NAME>, J., on the other hand thinks that confessions made to the police may have been considered to require more stringent provisions than confessions made by accused persons when in police custody to others.
RatioOfTheDecision	In accordance with the rule already stated,  I proceed to consider the meaning and effect of these sections as first enacted in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1861.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 145 of that Code (now Section 162 ) as already pointed out provides that statements of witnesses to the police if reduced to writing shall not be used as evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The following sections then deal with the confessions of accused persona to the police in the course of investigations by the latter.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 146 forbids the police to offer any inducements by threat or promise to an accused parson to make any disclosure or confession.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 147 forbids the police to record any statement or any admission or confession or guilt which may be made before him by an accused person.
Precedent	Section 148 (now Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act) then provides that "no confession or admission of guilt made to a <ORG> officer shall be used as evidence against a person accused of any offence," and Section 149 that "no confession or admission of guilt made by any person whilst he is in the custody of a  Police officer unless it be made in the immediate presence of a magistrate shall be used as evidence against such person."
Precedent	As I have already said, confession in these sections appears to name confession by an accused person to the police in the course of an investigation under the chapter, and as before the passing of Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act of 1872 confessions of accused persons could not be used against co-accused, such confessions could only be evidence against the accused persons making them, or to corroborate their evidence when they turned approvers, by treating their confessions as previous statements made by the witnesses under Section 31 of Act II of 1855 since reproduced as Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.
Precedent	36.
Precedent	Now it may be said on the one hand that as by Section 145 of the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861 immediately preceding the legislature had made an exception in the general law regarding the use of previous statements as corroboration restricting the use in evidence  of such previous statements if made to the police whether they amounted to confessions or not, and practically excluding them, it is not likely that they intended in Section 148 to introduce a further exception as to the use of previous statements which amount to confessions; that as observed by <NAME>, J., if any such fresh provision had been intended, it would have extended to exculpatory statements by accused persons as well as to confessions, and to confessions made by accused persons whilst in police custody under Section 149 (now Section 26 of the Indian Evidence Act) as well as to confessions to the police themselves coming within Section 148 (now Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act).
Precedent	It may be said further that the language of Section 148 "no confession or admission of guilt made to a police officer shall be used as evidence against a person accused of any offence" is susceptible of the meaning that no confession made by such a person to the police should be used against him, and that in this respe ct the scope of the two Sections 148 , 149 is the same, although in the latter the draftsman dealing with more complicated provisions has expressed his intention with greater precision.
Precedent	These considerations appear to me to have considerable force in favour of a restrictive construction of the section.
Precedent	The result of such a construction, as already explained, would to that confessions regarded merely as previous statements to the police were practically excluded as corroborative evidence down to 1886, and absolutely excluded from 1886 down to 1898, and only became admissible owing to the change in Section 162 of the Code of 1898.
Precedent	37.
Precedent	On the other hand, as against the view there is the fact that the terms of the prohibition in Section 148 of the Code of 1861 and now in Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act are perfectly general; and as observed by <ORG>, a construction which renders statements which are inadmissible against; the persons making them admissible against other persona is not one to be favoured .
Precedent	It is also perhaps worthy of note that confessions to the police which come under Section 143 were forbidden to be recorded by Section 147 , whereas there was no such prohibition as regards confessions made by persons in police custody which come under Section 149 .
Precedent	The question then is whether giving due weight to all these considerations, as I have endeavoured to do, there is sufficient to require the <ORG> to put a restrictive construction upon the section or to justify it in so doing.
Precedent	I have felt great doubt upon this point especially in view of the difference of opinion among the members of the <ORG> and in these circumstances I think the safer, as it is certainly the simpler, course, is to read the words of the section in their natural moaning without putting any restrictive interpretation upon them, and so reading them I hold that these confessions were inadmissible even as corroborative evidence under Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act.
Precedent	38.
Precedent	I am, however, of opinion that the rejection of the sta tements made by the two approvers to the Inspector cannot affect the result of the trial.
Precedent	It has been held in a long catena of Indian cases that, in reviewing a case under Clause 26 of the Letters Patent it is the duty of the <ORG> when it finds there has been a misperception of evidence to apply the provisions of Section 167 of the Indian Evidence Act, and not to reverse the conviction if it shall appear to the <ORG> that "independently of the evidence objected to and admitted there was sufficient evidence to justify the decision," the decision here being that of the original tribunal.
Precedent	Hitherto this jurisdiction under Clause 26 has only been exercised in jury cases where of course no reasons were given for the verdict, and the <ORG> of review was perforce bound to go into the evidence itself for the purpose of seeing whether or not the remaining evidence justified the decision of the jury.
Precedent	In the present case under Section 11 (3) of the Criminal Law Amendment Act , 1908, the decision is that of the majority  of the <ORG>, and the reasons for that decision have been given in a most careful and elaborate judgment.
Precedent	Now discarding the previous statements of the two approvers to the Inspector, we find that, within a few days after these statements, the approvers made statements to the same effect before a magistrate, Mr. <NAME>, as to which no question of in-admissibility arises, and the learned Judges have observed that, even if the statements to the Inspector are discarded and only those recorded by Mr. <NAME> are considered, they find it impossible to accept the defence theory that the approvers' story was concocted or tutored, and, from a perusal of the judgment, it is perfectly plain that discarding the statements to the Inspector they accepted the evidence of the two approvers as generally truthful, and acted upon it as they were entitled to do.
Precedent	Here I may observe that the learned Judges bad before thorn the fact which was properly in evidence, that before their statements to Mr. <NAME> the approvers had made still earli er statements to the Inspector at a time and under circumstances which in their opinion negatived the concoction at that stage of such a story its they afterwards told to Mr. <NAME> and in the witness-box; and they were, I think, justified in view of all the circumstances in rejecting the suggestion of subsequent concoction in the interval between the two sets of abatements, unless supported by a reference to the earlier statements, which were available to the defence under the proviso to Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and would not, as we now know, have supported it.
Precedent	It' then the Court had rejected the statements made to the Inspector and still convicted the accused, it would have been impossible for us to say that there was not sufficient evidence to justify their decision; and it appears to me to be equally impossible for us to say so, when in effect the learned Judges tell us that though considering the evidence admissible they did not consider it necessary to base their decision upon it and  were prepared to convict without it.
Precedent	39.
Precedent	I think therefore the applications must be dismissed.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	40.
Precedent	On the preliminary question I do not think I can usefully add anything to what has already been said, I agree with the opinions of <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ.
Precedent	41.
Precedent	On the first point in the Advocate-General's certificate I have a few words to say but having had an opportunity of perusing the judgments written by some of my learned colleagues I do not think it necessary for <NAME> to discuss the decided cases bearing on the subject.
Precedent	On the effect of the decisions I agree with what has just been read by <NAME>, J.
Precedent	42.
RatioOfTheDecision	I consider that the majority of <ORG> have correctly laid down the law, and that it is not the law that special circumstances must be found to exist before an accomplice's statement can he acted upon without corroboration.
RatioOfTheDecision	To hold so as a matter of law would, it seems to me, deprive the <ORG> of the discretion given by Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act to raise or not raise th e presumption-would in effect substitute the phrase "shall presume" for "may presume" in that section,  43.
Precedent	I do not dissent from the decisions which have held that ordinarily as a matter of practice a court should not accept that uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice as sufficient evidence to support a conviction, but it is impossible consistently with the Indian Evidence Act to hold that as a matter of law the presumption must to raised, and rebutted by special circumstances or by corroboration.
Precedent	44.
Precedent	I am not sure that the conclusions of <NAME>, J., stated at pages 347 and 348 (1912) I.L.R.
Precedent	35 Mad.
Precedent	247 differ materially from those of the other two learned Judges, but if he intended to lay it down as law that a conviction is illegal which is based upon the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice, unless something' which amounts in law to a "special circumstance" be found by the Judge or jury, then it seems to me he goes beyond the statement of the English law accepted from "Taylor on Evidence by t he learned Chief Justice in R. v. Tate (1908) 2 K.B.
Precedent	680, for that statement, so far as I am at present concerned with it, is only to the effect that the respect habitually paid by juries to the advice of Judges has given rise to a settled practice not to convict upon the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice except in very special circumstances.
Precedent	Consequently, as I understand it, Judges are bound by law to advise juries to adhere to this practice, but it does not follow that juries are bound as a matter of law to do so,  45.
Precedent	In the present case, the majority of <ORG> have given reasons for deeming the accomplices to be credible witnesses in the circumstances of the case, and Mr. <NAME> had consequently to argue that "special circumstances" are circumstances differing in quality from those which are ordinarily applied as tests of the credibility of witnesses on whom there rests no taint of complicity in the crime with which the accused is charged.
Precedent	46.
Precedent	To accept this contention wou ld to my mind, be to introduce into the law on this subject an additional and entirely undesirable and unnecessary element of artificiality; the contention itself is perhaps an illustration of the danger of adopting the suggested rule as a rule of law.
Precedent	47.
Precedent	I concur on the second point with the majority of <ORG>, when they hold that the previous statements of accomplices are admissible under Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act to corroborate their testimony given at the trial.
Precedent	48.
Precedent	It was not denied that such statements cannot, having regard to Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act, be excluded if made in the circumstances sob forth in the section and inasmuch as the section expressly admits them in order to corroborate the testimony of a witness, it necessarily follows that they are legal corroboration of the evidence given at the trial.
Precedent	49.
Precedent	The words of Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act cannot to controlled by the illustrations to Section 114 , a section which treats of presumptions wh ich may be made: but the evidence admitted under Section 157 may be so far affected by the illustrations to Section 114 that the corroboration afforded by it might conceivably, not be in law sufficient corroboration to justify the <ORG> in acting on the evidence given at the trial.
Precedent	Consequently I must take it, I think, that the Advocate-General suggests for our consideration the view that the phrase "corroborated in material particulars" in illustration (b) to Section 114 , is a technical term connoting a corroboration different from that of Section 157 , in fact a corroboration by independent or untainted evidence.
Precedent	I am unable to find reasons to accept this view as a matter of law.
Precedent	The evidence, I conclude, is admissible as corroboration and whether it is sufficient or not to justify the <ORG> in believing the evidence given at the trial is a question of the weight to be given to it and not a question of law.
Precedent	50.
Precedent	I do not think that I can usefully add much to what has already been said upon this point by <ORG> <NAME>, J., whose judgment I have had an opportunity of reading: I concur entirely in his conclusions as to the law.
Precedent	51.
Precedent	I may point out that the learned Judges in <CITATION_333658> (1884) I.L.R.
Precedent	10 Calc.
Precedent	970 declined to consider whether the rule should he "extended" to the case of previous statements made before arrest, and that <NAME>, J, (at page 351), is prepared to hold that there might possibly be a difference where the previous statement of an accomplice is made at a time when there was no inducement to make a false statement and in circumstances which indicate that it is true.
Precedent	52.
Precedent	But if previous statements made under some circumstances are sufficient corroboration, then it seems to me very difficult to lay down as a matter of law the rule suggested by the Advocate-General, simply because, in our opinion, such cases are fewer than those in which the previous statements are valueless.
Precedent	And there is no need for us to try to do so the discretion given to Judges and juries in weighing evidence is al l that is required, and no rule is in my opinion wanted except to secure that Judges and juries dealing with facts shall have fully before them the defects inherent in the evidence of accomplices and the tests which experience has shown to be the best aids in estimating its real value in the particular case.
Precedent	53.
Precedent	I see danger and not safety in ruling out as inadmissible in the ease of accomplice witnesses any tests of credibility which are available in the case of other witnesses whether the test applied fiends to confirm or to discredit the evidence.
Precedent	54.
Precedent	The third point,-I do not think that our decision upon points 3, 4 and 5, can effect our judgment on the case, because it seems to me quite clear from their judgment that the Chief Justice and <NAME>, J., were prepared to arrive at the conclusion at which they did arrive whether the evidence of <NAME> proving previous statements of the accomplices, <NAME> and <NAME>, is admitted or rejected.
Precedent	It seems, therefore, to me really unnecessary t o express any opinion upon these three points, but I follow my learned colleagues in doing So, .
Precedent	55.
Precedent	So far as the third point is concerned the decision of the majority is correct, if Inspector <NAME> was legally competent to investigate the "fact" within fine meaning of Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act: that is for the most part a question of fact and the evidence bearing on this point was put before us at the hearing.
Precedent	It shows that the Inspector was deputed by Mr. <NAME> to assist the local Assistant Superintendent in making searches in Tuticorin-and it is not denied that, if deputed to investigate by Mr. <NAME>, the Inspector would be legally competent to make the investigation for which he was deputed.
Precedent	In the absence of any statement by Mr. <NAME> to the contrary I consider that the deputation to assist in making the searches is equivalent to an authority to the Inspector to assist at an investigation; the making of the searches is investigation is investigating within the meaning of th at word in the Criminal Procedure Code , if that be necessary; the investigation in question was not the collection of evidence to determine who murdered the Collector of Tinnevelly; the assassin had killed himself and no investigation was wanted; the investigation was to collect evidence to establish a charge of abetment of the murder, to ascertain who were the instigators of the crime.
Precedent	The existence of the conspiracy alleged by <NAME> was relevant to the issues involved in that investigation and the statement of <NAME> was therefore relevant to that investigation, and it makes no difference that the conspiracy alleged by <NAME> has not been shown at the trial to have been a conspiracy of abettors of the particular murder in question.
Precedent	Whether the fact' of Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act be here the truth of the statement of <NAME> or the existence of a conspiracy to murder <NAME> was competent to investigate it so far at any rate as he could do so in the course of his searches at T uticorin.
Precedent	56.
Precedent	Of course it is possible that his authority was only to guard the door or make or copy a list of papers or carry boxes or dig up floors, but I am not prepared to presume that that was what was expected of an officer of the rank of an Inspector of <ORG>.
Precedent	I therefore find nothing in the evidence put before us to require me to hold that the CHIEF JUSTICE and <NAME> were in error on this point.
Precedent	57.
Precedent	The fourth point.-On this point I am of opinion that there is no error of law in the judgment of the Chief Justice and <NAME>, <NAME>.
Precedent	I agree with those learned Judges that there is no difference in the object of Sections 25 and 26 of the Indian Evidence Act; that both are aimed at the same mischief: and I have not been satisfied that there is any substantial reason for attributing to the legislature an intention to place a confession made to a police officer on a different footing from one made by a person in the custody of the police.
Precedent	Consequently I approach the c onsideration of this question from the point of view that, as Section 26 applies only to the proof of a confession as against its maker, so it should be held that Section 25 has a similar scope unless we are bound by its language or for some other reason to give it a wider application.
Precedent	Now Sections 25 , 28 and 27 of the Indian Evidence Act were imported into the Indian Evidence Act from the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861, where they were placed among the provisions dealing with the powers of police officers in making investigations into cases of alleged offences-So far as I know there was at the time, that is in 1861, no provision in the law of evidence as administered in India, corresponding to Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act of 1872; and so there is no apparent reason why it should suggest itself to the framers of the Code that it was necessary to provide for the case of the use of a confession as against any person other than the person who made it.
Precedent	These sections of the Code of 1861 were not dealin g with the question of witnesses in criminal trials or with a consideration of what might or might not be corroboration of the testimony of witnesses in such trials and Sections 147 , 148 , 149 and 150 of that Code are clearly intended to render it, so far as possible, useless for police officers to extract confessions from accused persona for use at their trial.
Precedent	They are not and could not be meant to prevent the taking of confessions by the police in all circumstances, even as aids to investigation: Section 147 permits the police officer to make a note for his own information of a confession made to him,  59.
Precedent	By Section 147 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1881 a police officer is prohibited from making a record of a confession, except for his own information, when the confession is made by "a parson accused of any offence": that is to say, as I understand it, a parson against whom there is a 'case' which is being investigated under Section 135 (vide Section 144 ).
Precedent	Section 148 forbids the use of any conf ession made to a police officer, as evidence against "a person accused of any offence:" that in to say or so it seems to me, the same person whose confession the police officer is forbidden to record except for his own information.
Precedent	Then Section 149 makes a similar prohibition of the use as evidence against the maker of a confession made by any person while he is in the custody of the police.
Precedent	60.
Precedent	The case having been investigated, the person accused of any offence is put on his trial: the confessions made by him to the police officer, or while in custody of the police officer are not to be used as evidence against him.
Precedent	61.
Precedent	That it seems to me, is the natural meaning of these provisions and the only meaning appropriate to them having regard to their position in the Code of Criminal Procedure.
Precedent	In short they have nothing to do with the statements of witnesses.
Precedent	I am not at all pressed by the difference in language between Section 348 and Section 149 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1861, because I think a ca reful examination of the two sections will show that, in order to express clearly and at the same time correctly and elegantly the particular position dealt with by Section 149 , it may very wall have been deemed necessary to depart from the brief and succinct diction of Section 148 .
Precedent	I think then there can be very little doubt; that in the Code of 1861, both these sections were intended to prevent the use, as evidence against the maker, of confessions made actually or in effect to Police officers.
Precedent	62.
Precedent	Then the sections are imported without material alteration of language, into the Indian Evidence Act of 1872, and I am unable to find any reason to give them a more extended meaning than they bore in the Code of 1861 For prima facie the law of evidence does not allow the use of a confession, which is a form of admission as evidence against any person except the maker; Section 30 provides for a particular and exceptional case: and that being so there seems no reason to suppose that the legislature in transferri ng Sections 148 and 149 of the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861 to the Indian Evidence Act , had any intention of extending their application.
Precedent	On the other hand, had there been any such intention I should have expected to find an alteration in the language of Section 26 in the Indian Evidence Act so as to extend that section to cases other than that of the maker of the confession.
Precedent	63.
Precedent	It has to be remembered too that the confession of a witness is not used as a confession aft the trial of some one else: it is not used as an admission; it is put in to corroborate or to contradict the witness; and Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act was not, as I understand the matter, concerned with the statements of witnesses.
Precedent	If used for corroboration the confession is put in to show that certain allegations against other persons, allegations made by the witness at the trial of those persons, were made by him at some earlier period, at a time when or under circumstances in which it may be regarded as somewhat probable that  he might have been telling the truth.
Precedent	And I am unable to see that it is more dangerous to allow a witness to be corroborated by a self-incriminating statement made to a <ORG> officer than by a self-exculpatory statement to the same officer.
Precedent	64.
Precedent	On She other hand Section 30 seems to indicate that in the view of the legislature a man is less likely to make false accusations against others when ho is incriminating himself as wall as them.
Precedent	I agree, then, with the dictum of <NAME>, J., in <CITATION_1547294> (1885) I.L.R.
Precedent	9 Bom.
Precedent	131, at p. 134 and am of opinion that the CHIEF JUSTICE and <NAME>, J., were right as regards this point of the Advocate-General's certificate.
Precedent	65.
Precedent	I may add that I do not think the cases dealing with Section 30 have any great bearing on the question which I am discussing.
Precedent	It is true that the learned Judges in one case, <CITATION_1001022> (1910) Bom.
Precedent	L.R.
Precedent	899 remark that their conclusion is confirmed by the language of Section 25 , but it is impossible from this to draw the inference that  they considered the question we have to deal with, while it is quite possible to arrive at their conclusion by reading Sections 30 and 25 together without affecting the present question in any way,  66.
Precedent	Fifth point.
Precedent	On this point I desire only to say that the language of She section and the history of the various amendments made from time to time constrain us to accept the law as laid down by the learned Judges of the Special Bench.
Precedent	67.
Precedent	There is no ground on which we can interfere with the decision of the Special Bench and the petitions of the accused must be dismissed: and as I have said the same result is arrived at if I am wrong, and if the evidence of <NAME> is excused so far as it relates to the previous statements made by <NAME> and <NAME>.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME>.
Precedent	Fourteen persons were tried on charges under Section 121-A , Indian Penal Code , and Section 302 , Indian Penal Code , road with Sections 109 and 111 , by a Special Bench of three learned Judges (the Chief Justice, <NAME> -Nair and <NAME>, JJ.)
Precedent	constituted under the provisions of the Indian Criminal Law Amendment Act (XIV of 1908) which provides for the speedy trial of certain offence?.
Precedent	The trial was held without a jury in accordance with Section 11 of the Act, and the <ORG> unanimously found that the charge under the latter section of abetment of murder was not proved against any of the prisoners and acquitted them all under that head of the indictment;.
Precedent	But upon the remaining count, viz., the charge of conspiring to wage war against the King-Emperor, the learned Judges did not agree with respect to the case against ail the accused; the Chief Justice and <NAME>, J., came to the conclusion that the charge was substantiated against 9 out of the 14 persons tried but not against the rest (i.e., the ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth accused) while <NAME>, J., was of opinion that the <ORG> failed to establish the case not only against the five parsons acquitted by the majority of the <ORG> but also against four  other accused persons (viz., chose mentioned and the third, fourth, fifth and the seventh).
Precedent	The Judges were unanimous in finding four of the prisoners guilty, namely, the first, second, sixth and the fourteenth accused.
Precedent	Under Section 11 of the Act referred to, judgment was pronounced in accordance with the opinion of the majority and sentences were passed accordingly.
Precedent	69.
Argument	The case is now brought before us under Article 26 of the Amended Letters Patent of this Court upon a certificate granted by the Advocate-General on a petition presented to him by the accused Nos.
Argument	3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.
Argument	The present Advocate-General who appeared for the Crown has taken She preliminary objection that Article 26 of the Letters Patent has no application to a case tried in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Criminal Law Amendment Act and we have therefore no jurisdiction to review the case That article must be considered in connection with Articles 22, 23, 24 and 25.
Argument	Article 22 defines the local limits of its ordinary origi nal criminal jurisdiction which mainly coincides with the local limits of its ordinary civil jurisdiction and Article 23 empowers <ORG> in the exercise of such jurisdiction to try all persons brought before it in due course of law.
Argument	Then Article 24 declares that in addition to its ordinary original criminal jurisdiction <ORG> shall have extraordinary original criminal jurisdiction over all persons residing in places within the jurisdiction of any <ORG>; subject to the superintendence of <ORG>-the prisoners here answer the description-and shall have authority to try at its discretion any such person brought before it on charges preferred by the Advocate General or by any Magistrate or other officer especially empowered by the <ORG> in this behalf.
Argument	Article 25 next lays down that the accused has no right of appeal to <ORG> from any sentence or order passed in any criminal trial before the <ORG>s of original criminal jurisdiction which may be constituted by one or more Judg es of <ORG> but that it shall be at the discretion of any such <ORG> to reserve any point or points of law for the opinion of <ORG>.
Argument	Article 26 provides that on such a point or points being so reserved or on its being certified by the Advocate-General that in his opinion there is an error in the decision of a point of law decided by the <ORG> of original criminal jurisdiction or that a point of law which has been decided by the said <ORG> shall be further considered, the said <ORG> shall have full power and authority to review the case or such part of it as may be necessary and finally determine such point of law, and thereupon to alter the sentence passed by the <ORG> of original jurisdiction and pass such judgment and sentence as to <ORG> shall seem right.
Argument	It is argued on behalf of the <ORG> that the <ORG> of original criminal jurisdiction referred to in Articles 25 and 26 refer to the <ORG> exercising the ordinary and extraordinary original criminal jurisdiction mentioned in Arti cles 22, 23 and 24 and that the trial in this case was not held in the exercise of either description of jurisdiction, I think there is force in the first part of this argument as both Articles 25 and 26 speak of the <ORG> of original criminal jurisdiction, apparently meaning the <ORG> exercising the ordinary or extraordinary criminal jurisdiction of the High <ORG> mentioned in Articles 22, 23 and 24.
Argument	In fact these articles confer such plenary jurisdiction on the High <ORG> that it may well be inferred that it was not within the contemplation of the Letters Patent that the High <ORG> should be called upon to exercise original criminal jurisdiction in any ease not covered by these articles.
Argument	It is however, conceivable, though very unlikely, that the Indian legislature may confer original criminal jurisdiction on the Madras High <ORG> in oases which do not fall within the ambit of its ordinary or extraordinary jurisdiction.
Argument	To these cases Article 26 would not perhaps be applicable but I have no hesitation in hol ding that the contention of the Advocate-General that the present is such a case is clearly untenable, The prisoners are all residents of the Madras Presidency and over them the <ORG> would undoubtedly have jurisdiction under the first part of Article 24.
Argument	It is therefore apparently not a case in which the High <ORG> has no jurisdiction under the Letters Patent but derives its jurisdiction from a special statute.
Precedent	Nor is there anything in the Indian Criminal Law Amendment Act to suggest that the legislature was conscious that it was conferring a jurisdiction on the High <ORG> which it did not already possess.
Precedent	The Act proceeds on the assumption that the Magistrate who held the enquiry should commit the parsons charged to the High <ORG> to whose superintendence the Magistrate is subject (see Sections 3 and 5 ).
Precedent	It no doubt makes a radical change in the procedure to be pursued in the feral at the High <ORG> by enacting that the trial shall not be by a jury and to this extend the change is no doubt one affecting th e forum of trial.
Precedent	But it does not purport to affect the jurisdiction of <ORG> as conferred upon it by the Letters Patent; it only regulates the manner of the exercise of its jurisdiction.
Precedent	That the question whether a trial should, be held by a Judge and a jury or otherwise is not to be treated as one relating to jurisdiction is also amply indicated by the fact that it is not Articles 22, 23 and 24 of the Letters Patent, by which jurisdiction is given to this Court in criminal cases, that require that trials should be held by a Judge and a jury; that matter is dealt with by Article 38 which regulates the procedure in trials, The argument on which the Advocate-General lays the most emphasis is that <ORG> in its extraordinary jurisdiction can only try such persons as are brought before it "on charges preferred by the Advocate-General" which is not the case here-"or by any magistrate or other officer expressly empowered by the Government in that behalf," and that in this case the magistrate who c ommitted the accused for trial to <ORG> could not be taken to have preferred the charges within the meaning of Article 24 as he did not derive his authority to do so from the Government but from the legislature, It does not seem to me that there is any force in this contention.
Precedent	The Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Tinnevelly who committed this case was undoubtedly appointed to his office by the Government and it was by virtue of that office that be took cognizance of the offence and preferred charges against the accused in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code .
Precedent	Then <ORG> under Section 2 of the Indian Criminal Law Amendment Act directed that the provisions of that Act should apply to those proceedings, that is, among other matters, the magistrate who had taken cognizance of the offence should send the accused to <ORG> for trial upon charges, to be framed by him.
Precedent	This is therefore clearly a case in which the magistrate was "expressly empowered by the Govern ment" to prefer the charges on which the accused were tried by <ORG>, even giving a narrow literal meaning to these words.
Precedent	But I may observe that the words "expressly empowered by the Government" were not in my opinion intended fen to used in a narrow sense.
Precedent	If the contention of the Advocate-General were well founded, there could be no doubt that when a European British subject is charged with an offence punishable with death or transportation for life and the District Magistrate enquires into it and commits the accused to <ORG> under the provisions of sections 443 and 447 , Criminal Procedure Code , such magistrate would not be deemed to be "expressly empowered by the Government" to prefer charges against the accused within the meaning of Article 24 of the Letters Patent but I do not think the application of Article 26 to such a case has ever been or can be doubted.
Precedent	I may mention that in <CITATION_609688> (1830) I.L.R.
Precedent	17 Calc.
Precedent	642, which was a case of that nature, no such objection so far  as it appears from the report was taken to the jurisdiction of <ORG> to review the case under Article 26.
Precedent	70.
Precedent	It has further been urged by the Advocate-General that the object of the Indian Criminal Law Amendment Act is to provide for the speedy trial of offences of a particular description and if Article 26 of the Letters Patent applied this object would be frustrated.
Precedent	I do not think there is any force again in this argument.
Precedent	The mode in which a speedy trial was to be secured is specified in the Act itself, namely, by providing that the enquiry by the magistrate should be held in the absence of the accused who is not to be represented at all during the enquiry, that the commitment is to be to <ORG> instead of to <ORG> so as to obviate an appeal, and the trial is not to be with a jury.
Precedent	If, in addition, the legislature wanted to enact that it would not be open to <ORG> to obtain the opinion of <ORG> on any question of law however vital in its beari ng on the trial in which such Bench may entertain a doubt, or that it should not be within the power of <ORG> to prevent a miscarriage of justice due to an erroneous decision on a point of law, however manifest, one would expect such declaration to have been made in absolutely clear and unambiguous language.
Precedent	71.
Precedent	I overrule the preliminary objection.
Precedent	72.
Precedent	I purpose to consider the questions raised by the first two paragraphs of the certificate together.
Precedent	The first paragraph requires us to consider what the law is on the subject of an accomplice's evidence and whether the law is correctly stated in the judgment of the majority of <ORG>, and the second paragraph raises the question whether the majority of the <ORG> are right in their view that the previous statements of an accomplice can be regarded as such corroboration of his evidence in <ORG> as the law requires.
Precedent	73.
RatioOfTheDecision	I may observe that these two grounds of the certificate are couched in absolutely general terms but it is clear that the i ntention of the Advocate-General was not to raise mere abstract questions of law without reference to the circumstances of the case in which the view of law of the majority of the Special Bench which we are asked to reconsider was expressed and applied.
RatioOfTheDecision	I shall therefore briefly state the circumstances in which the various questions of law have arisen.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as some of the prisoners are concerned namely, those whom <NAME>, J., alone has acquitted, the evidence of the Crown, apart from evidence relating to the general circumstances of the case, consisted principally of the testimony of three approvers, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>; and the statements which are said to have boon wrongly admitted or used as corroborative evidence are statements made by these men on several occasions before trial.
RatioOfTheDecision	In dealing with the question whether the way in which the learned CHIEF JUSTICE and <NAME>, J., approached the consideration of the evidence of these approvers involves an error in law, one has to bear in  mind the nature of the crime to which the approvers speak, the part which they themselves played in it and the circumstances in which they have come forward to give evidence for the Grown.
RatioOfTheDecision	As unanimously found by the Special Bench, <NAME> alias <NAME> (first accused) who had been engaged for some time in journalistic work of a more or last seditious character, set on foot early in April 1910 the conspiracy, the subject of the first count, for the purpose of overthrowing the British rule "by means of a simultaneous massacre of all Europeans on a day to be subsequently fixed."
RatioOfTheDecision	This plan which was as original as it is startling in conception was thought of, because all other methods which had been triad before by those who have been engaged in the criminal conspiracies against the Government which have come to light in recent years in some parts of India, such as preaching, writing in newspapers and isolated assassinations, had failed.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> found some coadjutors; according to the finding of the m ajority of the Bench his confederates would be about twelve in number including the approvers besides two or three more men who have not figured in the case, and in the view taken by <NAME>, J., about seven, Of these, the accused <NAME> (accused No.
RatioOfTheDecision	2), one <NAME> and the approver, <NAME>, appear to have been the most active adherents of Nilakantan.
RatioOfTheDecision	The evidence of conspiracy consists of the oaths taken by the conspirators at three distinct meetings-the first at a place called Tenkasi on the 10th April 1910, the second at Tuticorin in the middle of July and the third which was held at Punalur after the second meeting-to the effect that they would kill all white men on one and the same day when there was to be a general rising throughout the country and that they would sacrifice their lives and their properties in order to carry out the design, The oath was written in a piece of paper and all who agreed to join the movement, pricked their thumbs and affixed their thumb impressions in bloo d on the paper.
RatioOfTheDecision	The papers are not forthcoming.
RatioOfTheDecision	But according to the approvers, <NAME>, <NAME> (accused Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	1, 2 and 3) and the approver <NAME> (sixth prosecution witness) took part in the proceedings of the first meeting, the first, second, fourth and fifth accused and the approvers <NAME> and <NAME> took the oath at the second meeting, and the accused Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 14, the approver <NAME>, <NAME> and five other men took the oath at the third meeting which was held some time in August 1910.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nothing however, so far as it transpires in the evidence, seems to have been done to carry out the seditious design either in the shape of collecting arms or men or in any other way whatsoever.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having regard to the obscure and humble position in life of the conspirators, the absolute lack of any means at their command to carry out a plan which from its magnitude, no less from its character, would be regarded by moat people as one impossible of achieveme nt, I think the majority of the <ORG> was justified, if I may be allowed to say so, in regarding the conspiracy as something contemptible, so far as the possibility of its leading to any result is concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	In all probability the idea would have died a natural death and would not even have been heard of except for an event which in the language of the judgment of the majority of the <ORG>, has little or no bearing on the charge of conspiracy.
Precedent	<NAME> who was an ardent follower of <NAME>'s teachings shot down Mr. <NAME>, the Collector of Tinnevelly, on the 17th June 1911, and himself committed suicide on the spot.
Precedent	The motive of the murder was evidently political but as pointed out in the judgments of the Special Bench, the offence was not committed in pursuance of the conspiracy with which the prisoners are charged, it was in fact an act done in direct violation of the plan decided upon at the meetings.
Precedent	The majority of the Bench observe "the evidence as to the circumstances in which the murder was committed  has very little, if any, bearing on the question whether the accused or any of <NAME> are guilty under Section 121-A of the Indian Penal Code."
Precedent	74.
Precedent	Nevertheless, the conspiracy charged against the prisoners is a grave offence against the <ORG> and the legislature attaches to it the most serious penalties, The three approvers who admit having taken part in such a conspiracy were permitted to give evidence against the prisoners under pardon granted to <NAME> by the magistrate under Section 337 , Criminal Procedure Code , "on the condition of their making a full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstances within their knowledge relative to such offence and to every other person concerned whether as principal or abettor, in the commission thereof."
Precedent	These persons, if found not to have complied with the condition of pardon, whether by wilfully concealing anything essential or by giving false evidence may be tried for the very offence in respect of which the pardon was tendered or for any other offence of w hich they appear to have been guilty in connection with the same matter and the very statements made by them may be given as evidence against them when they are placed on their trial after the pardon has been forfeited The approvers in this case are therefore men who were giving their evidence with halters round their necks, to use an expressive phrase which I believe occurs in one of the numerous cases cited at the bar on the subject of accomplices' evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The probability that persons in their perilous position would attempt to purchase immunity for themselves by falsely implicating innocent men is so great, that, apart from any special rule of law that may or may not exist as to the necessity of requiring corroboration of accomplices' evidence generally, it is obvious to one's common sense that the danger of acting upon such witness word alone against the accused persons must be grave indeed.
RatioOfTheDecision	I would not for my part hesitate in saying that a conviction founded on evidence of this character must be wrong  as being based on absolutely unsafe materials unless there are to be found in the case the amplest guarantees of its truth derived from circumstances and evidence altogether independent of these witnesses' statements  75.
RatioOfTheDecision	The certificate of the Advocate-General in its first paragraph assumes that the majority of <ORG> have in fact acted upon <NAME>'s and the other approvers' evidence without any corroborative evidence; even if that were so, we should be powerless to interfere unless it was made out that in so acting or in the way they have dealt with that evidence the learned Judges have committed an error in law, It is important at the outset to know in what light they have regarded the approvers' evidence and what use they have made of it.
RatioOfTheDecision	As I read their judgment they are of opinion that this evidence from its very nature must be received with caution and care, and that, though it was not correct to say as contended for on behalf of the defence that it was not open to then in law" to act upon  it, yet, they would not feel themselves safe in accepting such evidence in so far as it affected the prisoners without corporation.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are passages in the judgment of the majority of the <ORG> which go to show that they were prepared to believe the general truth of the approvers' story apart from any corroborative evidence, but none from which it can be reasonably in forced that they would have accepted that evidence alone as sufficient to prove the complicity of the prison-era.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, they attach the utmost importance to certain previous statements of the approvers as corroborative of their evidence in <ORG> and when they came to consider the case of the Grown against the accrued persons individually they take care to state whether the corroborative evidence, such as it is, implicates or does not implicate particular prisoners.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards the taw regarding accomplices evidence generally the majority of the Special <ORG> lay down that the law does not prohibit the conviction of an accused pars on on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice, but that at the same time in accepting such evidence the <ORG> must act with the greatest possible caution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Those are their words: "In the case before us we are judge and jury.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have to direct ourselves.
RatioOfTheDecision	The proper direction seems to us be-consider the evidence of the approvers., always bear in mind that it is tainted evidence, scrutinise it with the utmost care, accept it with the greatest caution, consider it in the light of the circumstances in which id is given and in the tight of all the other circumstances in the case of which evidence is legally admissible.
RatioOfTheDecision	Then, if you believe it, act on it even if there is no corroboration in the strict sense of the word.
RatioOfTheDecision	If you do not believe it, reject it" So far as these statements go, I do not think they can, in my opinion, be said to contain an erroneous proposition of law.
Precedent	I may observe however that the learned Judges undoubtedly lay emphasis on that aspect of the law according to which a conviction founded  upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice is not illegal.
Precedent	But they do so apparently to meet the extreme arguments of the pleaders on behalf of the accused to the contrary and not because they were prepared in the ease before them to act upon such evidence.
Precedent	76.
Precedent	The first question raised by the certificate is stated in these words: "That in my judgment the opinion of the majority of the <ORG> that the evidence of an accomplice need not be corroborated in material particulars before it can be acted upon, and that it would be open to the <ORG> to convict on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice if the <ORG> was satisfied that the evidence was true, requires to be further considered; and it requires to be further considered whether Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act read with Section 114 , illustration (b) does not merely intend to lay down that a conviction upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice is not illegal where the presumption of untrustworthiness attaching to the evidence  of an accomplice is rebutted by special circumstances."
RatioOfTheDecision	If we take the two statements independently of each other and the first part of the paragraph to moan that the majority of the <ORG> wore wrongs in stating as a general proposition that the law permits of a conviction on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice, then there can be no doubt that the Advocate-General's objection is untenable and for this purpose it is sufficient to refer to the clear language of Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	But I do not think that that is what the Advocate-General meant, Both parts of the first paragraph of the certificate must 'be read together and so read what the certificate really moans is that the Judges' statement that the law permitted of a conviction being based on the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice is inaccurate inasmuch as it- does not add the necessary qualification that apart from any special circumstances, the Court ought to raise the presumption spoken of in Section 114 , illustration  (b), that an accomplice is unworthy of credit unless be is corroborated in material particulars, and therefore in ordinary oases the conviction would be illegal if based on such evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	But as I have pointed out the learned Judges were of opinion that the evidence of an accomplice should prima facie be regarded with distrust, otherwise there would be no meaning in their saying that you must accept such evidence with caution.
RatioOfTheDecision	The certificate in this connection apparently proceeds upon a misconception of what is laid down by the learned Judges.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this view of the matter it would have been unnecessary to go further into the first question but for the fact that in my opinion certain statements which were relied upon by the learned Judges as corroborative evidence justifying them in acting upon the evidence of the approvers as against the accused persons have been wrongly so used; and, it will thus to necessary to see whether we can hold that apart from any corroboration this is a case in which there are circu mstances which might make the general rule relating to the untrustworthiness of an accomplice's evidence inapplicable.
RatioOfTheDecision	Besides, the whole question as to the proper scope of the law regarding the subject having been raised by the first ground of the certificate and elaborately discussed at the bar it is right that one should state onus's opinion in the matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	The literature on the subject of accomplices' evidence is very large and one with which lawyers are quite familiar.
Precedent	The only point that has any novelty in this case is whether this Court can interfere as a matter of law with a conviction founded upon the evidence of an accomplice in a trial held by a Judge without a jury whore there is no corroboration of such evidence or if the evidence which the Court has relied on as corroborative is not such as to meet the requirements of the rule, and if so, in what circumstances?
Precedent	77.
Precedent	The decisions on the subject of accomplices' evidence in this country are to be found in cases tried by District and Sessions Judges  with a jury or assessors or by a <ORG> Judge with a jury, When a trial is by a Sessions Judge with the aid of assessors, the <ORG>, as the appellate court, has plenary powers of review in order to arrive at a decision upon the evidence Whether the conviction is right (see sections 418 and 423 , Criminal Procedure Code ) The Sessions Judge as a Court of appeal is given similar unlimited powers of review over convictions by magistrates in oases triable by the latter, When there has been an appeal to <ORG> from a conviction of a magistrate and it has confirmed the convictions, and in certain cases of summary trial by a magistrate in which the legislature allows no appeal, the <ORG> hag the power of revising the case (see sections 435 and 439 , Criminal Procedure Code ).
RatioOfTheDecision	These powers are of a very wide character though the usual practice of the <ORG> is not to interfere in such cases except where the decision in question involves an error in law which has contributed to a miscarr iage of justice.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other eases the question whether a conviction based on the uncorroborated testimony of accomplices can be regarded as erroneous in law may be of some practical importance though the fact that <ORG> in any particular case did interfere in revision to set aside the conviction would not necessarily mean that it treated the question as one of law.
Precedent	When a case is tried by at Sessions Judge with the aid of a jury the prisoner can appeal to <ORG> against the verdict only on a matter of law (see Section 418 , Criminal Procedure Code ); if the trial was held by a Judge of <ORG> in the exorcise of its original criminal jurisdiction, then, as we have seen, the prisoner has no right of appeal, but if the trying Judge has reserved any point of law for the decision of <ORG> or the Advocate-General has certified to an error in a decision of law, <ORG> is entitled to decide that point of law and pass such judgment as the case may require.
Precedent	78.
Precedent	Now whether the H <ORG> exercises its powers as an appellate Court under Section 417 , Criminal Procedure Code , in cases tried by a jury or as <ORG> under Article 26 of the Letters Patent, in either case it can interfere only when the trial is vitiated by an error in law and there is no substantial difference in the conditions of interference in the two cases.
Precedent	<CITATION_609688> (1890) I.L.R.
Precedent	17 Calc.
Precedent	642, already referred to, a question was raided whether the words of Article 26 " an error in the decision of a point or points of law decided by the Court of original criminal jurisdiction" are to be understood in a strictly literal sense as being applicable only to cases in which certain questions of law have been expressly raised and decided at the trial, and it was held that the language was wide enough to extend to cases where what is complained of involves a violation of the law or a failure to give effect to the injunctions of law.
Precedent	There can be no doubt in my opinion that this interpretation of Article 26 is  correct and it has not been contended otherwise in the present case.
Precedent	79.
Precedent	I have already said that the contention on behalf of the accused that a conviction is illegal merely because it is based on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice is sufficiently answered by Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act.
Precedent	The law has never been otherwise either in India or in England, at least not for a very long time.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand it is equally clear that the law makes special provisions as regards the treatment of an accomplice's evidence; the reception of that evidence stands on a different footing from the evidence of other witnesses.
RatioOfTheDecision	This, because of the fact that this class of witnesses are not only men of an infamous character but are induced to give their evidence by the expectation or hope that they will not be proceeded against for the crime which they are found to have committed if their story is believed as against the prisoners.
RatioOfTheDecision	The natural tendency of men in that position is to make out a ease against  the prisoner in order to save them selves.
RatioOfTheDecision	Instead of trying them for the offence which they have committed, the <ORG> banners a pardon to them in special oases with a view to obtain full information as to certain crimes which but for such evidence would not have come fully to light.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the law does not say that in such cases, because of the difficulty of detection, the <ORG> may be satisfied with a lower degree of certainty in the evidence than in other cases.
Precedent	On the other hand, the rule of law that the guilt of an accused person must be established beyond all reasonable doubt applies with equal force in all cases, and the more serious the nature of the crime with which a person is charged, the more circumspect the <ORG> must be as to the evidence it acts upon, These indeed are truisms of the criminal law of the land it may nevertheless be useful sometimes to state them, lest they be forgotten.
Precedent	80.
Precedent	In one part of the arguments of the learned Advocate-General on behalf of the <ORG>, he seemed to contend, i f I followed him aright, that inasmuch as the legislature by Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act declares that a conviction is not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice, it must necessarily follow that in no case where a conviction is based on such testimony by a tribunal of facts- is such conviction liable to review by a superior authority whose powers of interference are limited to matters of law.
Precedent	There is an apparent fallacy in this argument which treats the declaration that "a conviction is not illegal merely because it is based on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice" as equivalent to a declaration that "a conviction based on such testimony must necessarily be regarded as legal.
Precedent	It is obvious that the one does not follow as a logical consequence from the other.
Precedent	Section 133 does not purport to deal exhaustively with the question as to whether or when convictions based on an accomplice's testimony are or are not liable to be set aside as a matter  of law.
Precedent	For instance, suppose the law imposes on a Judge certain duties as to directing the jury in the matter of an accomplice's evidence short of telling them that the law does not permit of their acting on such evidence, would that be inconsistent with anything contained in Section 1337 Clearly not Then if the Judge failed to give such directions, the provisions of this section would not prevent the question of the propriety of a verdict given under these circumstances being treated as a point of law.
Precedent	Now Section 1 .33 thrust be considered along with Section 114 , illustration (b), and the explanations to that illustration furnish an indication how consideration of the evidence of an accomplice should be approached by the tribunal which is asked to act upon it.
Precedent	Section 114 says, the <ORG> 'may presume" the existence of any fact which, is thinks likely to have happened regard being bad to the common course of natural events, human conduct and public and private business in their relation to the facts of the  particular case in other words it says that the <ORG> may make certain natural presumptions, Illustration (b) to Section 114 is an example of such natural presumption.
Precedent	It says that the <ORG> may presume that an accomplice is unworthy of credit unless he is corroborated in material particulars.
Precedent	Then the legislature goes on to state 'But the <ORG> shall have regard to such facts as the following in considering whether such maxima do or do not apply" and cites two cases in explanation of illustration (b) suggesting without expressly saying so, that the maxim as to an accomplice being unworthy of credit unless he is corroborated in material particulars might not apply to those cases.
Precedent	Section 4 of the Indian Evidence Act lays down that wherever the phrase "may presume a fact is used, it means that the <ORG> may regard such fact as proved in law until it is disproved or may call for proof of if, contrary to "shall presume" when the <ORG> shall regard the fact to be proved unless and until it is disproved.
Precedent	Presumpt ions of this class must therefore be regarded as presumptions of fact and not of law.
Precedent	The argument on behalf of the Crown them is that the question of drawing a presumption' as to the untrustworthiness of an accomplice's evidence is left to the discretion of the <ORG>, and if the <ORG> has erred in this respect, it would not be an error in law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if it be granted that the law leaves it to the discretion of the trying <ORG> whether the presumption in question should or should not be raised in a particular case, it is undoubtedly a judicial discretion and it would not be correct to say that no improper exercise of such discretion can be set right as a matter of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	To my mind it is quits clear from the nature of the cases cited in the illustration that, except in the special circumstances, examples of which are attached to the section, the legislature requires that the <ORG> should make the natural presumptions referred to in the section.
RatioOfTheDecision	For instance, there can be little doubt that in ordinary circumstance s the presumptions mentioned in illustrations (c) and (e) viz., that a bill of exchange accepted or endorsed was accepted or endorsed for good consideration or that judicial and official acts have been regularly performed, should be made.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some indication to this effect is also furnished by the language in which the cases where the presumption may not be raised are introduced treating them as if they were exceptions to an ordinary rule.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whenever therefore the presumption is not raised or acted upon it must appear that special circumstances existed in, the case which either negatived the presumption or rebutted it.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now the first sub-illustration of illustration (b) of Section 114 is that of a case in which the presumption of untrustworthiness which would ordinarily arise from the moral character of an accomplice and the temptation he is under to save himself at the expanse of the prisoner is negatived by the supposition that the accomplice in question is a man of high and honourable character and any likelihood  of his falsely implicating an innocent man in order to save himself is also negatived by that fact and by the nature of the offence to which he is speaking.
RatioOfTheDecision	The case cited as the second sub-illustration shows that there need not be anything in the moral character of the accomplice and the nature of the crime which he admits having committed to negative the distrust to which his evidence would prima facie be subject and yet extraneous circumstances such as the fact that he and two others of his companions arrested immediately after the commission of the offence gave the same account of the occurrence implicating the accused under circumstances which for all practical purposes precluded the chances of a previous concert may be regarded as vouching for the truth of the accomplice's evidence, The supposed facts of the two illustrations are such as to leave no room for any reasonable doubt as to the truth of the accomplice's story in each ease.
RatioOfTheDecision	There may of course to circumstances of a similar nature which would  equally clearly negative the ordinary presumption against the reliability of an accomplice's evidence and it is the function primarily of <ORG> to attach due weight to those circumstances.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further the strength of the presumption when it arises must vary in different cases having regard to the nature of the crime, the strength of the motive that may exist to tell a false story, and other similar circumstances.
Precedent	All this to my mind only shows what has boon declared in so many words by Section 133 that the legislature did not intend to lay down a hard and fast rule that in every case the accomplice's testimony must be regarded as unworthy of credence, if not corroborated; but it does not therefore, us argued on behalf of the Crown, that in no case, where the Court refused to raise the presumption can it be said that: it has error in law.
Precedent	For instance, there can be no doubt that in ordinary cases an omission to raise the presumptions mentioned in illustrations (c) and (e) would be an error in law and ju stify a court of second appeal in interfering with the decree of the lower <ORG> on that ground.
Precedent	The presumption as to the unreliability of an accomplice's evidence is placed by the legislature on the same footing.
Precedent	No doubt there are oases and cases and while in doubtful cases the position contended for on behalf of the Grown may well be sound there is nothing at least in the Indian Evidence Act or in reason that in other cases in which there could be no two opinions that the presumption that an accomplice is unworthy of credit unless corroborated applies in full force not being either negatived or rebutted an omission to raise the obvious presumption should not be treated as an error in law.
Precedent	81.
Precedent	On the be other hand, as I have pointed out the illustrations to Section 114 furnish an indication to the contrary,  82.
Precedent	Now if the view which I have above indicated of the effect of the provisions be correct there is no foundation whatever for the suggestion that the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act are in an y respect different from what is laid down in the rulings of the Indian <ORG>s on the subject, either since the passing of the Indian Evidence Act or before it, or of the English <ORG>s, Before the passing of the present Evidence Act , the question of accomplice's evidence was dealt; with in India by Section 28 of Act II of 1855 in these terms.
Precedent	"Except in cases of treason, the direct evidence of one witness, who is entitled to full credit, shall be sufficient for proof of any fact in any such <ORG> or before any such person.
Precedent	But this provision shall not affect any rule or practice of any <ORG> that requires corroborative evidence in support of the testimony of an accomplice," Then it appears that at least in Bengal there was some uncertainty in the decisions of the <ORG>s on the question whether it was legal to convict upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice and the matter was referred in 1866 to <ORG> of the Bengal High <ORG>.
Precedent	In that case - <NAME> Case (1816) 5 W.R. Cr, R., 80, -Si r <NAME> in his well-known judgment fully investigated the whole question relating to an accomplice's evidence after an elaborate survey of the English and Indian authorities, and what he then laid down has not only been since followed as the law by all the <ORG> without question, but the Indian legislature when it came to pass the Indian Evidence Act has embodied the important principles enunciated in that judgment in Section 138 and the illustrations to Section 114 above referred to.
Precedent	In fact at leash one of these illustrations is bodily borrowed from the judgment of Sir <NAME>.
Precedent	It would be worse than idle on my part to refer again to the old English and Indian decisions discussed in the judgment of Sir <NAME>.
Precedent	His conclusions are that an accomplice, being a competent witness, a conviction founded upon the uncorroborated evidence of one or more accomplices alone is valid in law, But as a general rule there is danger in acting upon the evidence of an accomplice who is admitted to give  evidence for the Crown for reasons already indicated and t<NAME>t this danger is at least as great here as in England- The danger, however, disappears if the grounds which give rise to the apprehension are found to be absent in any particular case and he cites a hypothetical case which is embodied as sub illustration to illustration (b) to Section 114 , He further lays down t<NAME>t as a general rule it would be as unsafe to act upon the evidence of more t<NAME>n one accomplice as of one; otherwise two companions in guilt might get off by conspiring and falsely accusing two innocent persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	To this, there may be exceptions, and then he cites a case which <NAME>s apparently suggested the second sub-illustration to illustration (6) of Section 114 .
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards the duty of the Judge in dealing with such evidence, <NAME> lays down with reference to thy provisions of the then Criminal Procedure Code , which in this respect are the same as Section 279 of the present Code, imposing upon the Judge the duty of summing up the evidence, a nd, also upon general principles relating to trials by jury as are Do be gathered from the decisions and practice of English Judges, that it is quite as necessary here, as in England, if nut more so, that the evidence of accomplices should not be left to a jury without such directions and observations from the Judge as the circumstances of the case may require, that the giving of improper advice by the Judge or omission by him to give that advice, which the Judge in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion ought to give upon questions of fact or as to the degree of credit to be given to particular witnesses, is an error in law in the summing up.
RatioOfTheDecision	He then gives as an example an omission on the part of the Judge to tell the jury that the accomplices were giving the evidence under a tender of pardon or to explain to them the position in which the witnesses were placed and the danger of acting upon the evidence unless they should find that it was corroborated.
Argument	<NAME> goes oven further and says that it is the duty o f a Judge to advice the jury not to believe the evidence of an accomplice unless he is confirmed and only so far as he is confirmed and a failure in that respect is an error in law and forma a good ground of appeal against a conviction founded on a verdict of guilty based upon such evidence alone.
Argument	He also holds that it would be an error in the summing up to hell the jury that the evidence of the accomplices was corroborated by evidence of a fact which did not amount to any corroboration at all.
Argument	He finally lays down that, where there is an error in the summing up of the evidence, that would warrant the Court in setting aside the verdict of guilty, if the Court is satisfied that the prisoner was prejudiced by the error and that there has been a failure of justice.
Precedent	But the verdict and conviction ought not to be set aside, if the Court be of opinion that it was warranted by She evidence, and upon the evidence, they would have upheld the conviction on appeal, if the trial bad been by the Judge with the aid of asse ssors instead of by a jury.
Precedent	83.
Precedent	In this Presidency the ruling in Proceedings, dated 20th March 1861 4 M.H.
Precedent	C.R., Appx p., VII, which was before the passing of the Indian Evidence Act of 1872, lays down that no rule of law prohibits a conviction upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice but as a general rule of practice it is unsafe to convict upon such evidence and it is the duty of a Judge to point out the circumstances if any which would justify the jury in relying upon such evidence, <CITATION_459789> .
Precedent	(1867) 8 W.R. Cr, R., 19, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., set aside a verdict on the ground that the Judge did not with sufficient emphasis caution the jury as to the danger of paying any respect to the testimony of the approver in the case, and wholly omitted to guide them as to what amounted to legal corroboration in some material circumstances, such circumstances connecting and identifying the prisoner with the offence, <CITATION_9576911> .
Precedent	(1872) 18 W.R. Cr.
Precedent	R. 45, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, J, on the  other hand upheld a verdict of a jury since the Judge had properly cautioned them on the point and as the jury still found a verdict of guilty, there was no error in law.
Precedent	It is significant to note that the learned Judges thought that it was a proper case in which an appeal might be made to the Government.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> and four Ors.
Precedent	(1868) 9 W.R. Cr.
Precedent	R. 28, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., laid down that the evidence of an accomplice may be of it self evidence, but it should never be admitted as sufficient proof of guilt unless it is corroborated.
Precedent	In Bombay also in a case, <NAME> v. Fattechand Vastaohand (1868) 5 Bom.
Precedent	H.C.R.
Precedent	CC.
Precedent	85 it was laid down that it was the duty of the Judge to follow the ordinary rule and not to act upon the accomplice's evidence without corroboration in a material part of it.
Precedent	84.
Precedent	The first reported case of importance decided after the coming into operation of the present Indian Evidence Act is that of <CITATION_461207> (1874) 31 W.R. Cr.
Precedent	R. 69 which was heard by <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., on a ppeal from a conviction on a charge of murder in a trial by a jury.
Precedent	The learned Judges considered the effect of the enactment and their conclusion was that Section 114 , illustration (b), contained a legislative declaration that, regard being had to the common course of natural events and human conduct, an accomplice is unworthy of credit so far as his testimony implicating another person is concerned, unless he is corroborated in material particulars in respect of the prisoner, but that in exceptional cases, such as those mentioned in the sub illustrations, the <ORG> might give credit to the accomplices' testimony against the accused, if it sees good, reasons for doing so upon grounds other than the personal corroboration.
Precedent	They go on further to observe that it is the nature of an accomplice's evidence that; calls for corroboration even though such evidence was given in a process of careful examination or capable of being tested by cross-examination.
Precedent	85.
Precedent	The earliest decisions of this <ORG> under the Indian  Evidence Act brought to our notice is in Reg.
Precedent	v- Ramasami Padayachi (1878) I.L.R.
Precedent	I Mad.
Precedent	394, where <NAME>, C.J., and <NAME>, J., laid down that it was not the law that the evidence of an accomplice was receivable in evidence without corroboration and that Sections 133 and 114 , illustration (b) coincide with the rule in England.
RatioOfTheDecision	They state the rule to be that the tainted evidence of an accomplice should he carefully scanned and received with caution and may be treated as unworthy of credit, yet if the jury or the <ORG>, as the case may be, credits the evidence, a conviction proceeding upon it is not illegal.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some reliance was placed on this ruling on behalf of the Crown, as if it laid down the law differently from the other decisions, but I find nothing to support the suggestion.
RatioOfTheDecision	The judgment does not deal with the question in what cases the manner in which an accomplice's evidence is dealt with by the <ORG>, either in directions to the jury or in laying down for its own guidance the principles for testi ng such evidence, may amount to an error in law.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand they say that the law on this point is the same as the law in England on the point.
Precedent	In Beg.
Precedent	v. Malapa bin Kapana and Ors.
Precedent	(1874) 11 Bom.
Precedent	H.C.R.
Precedent	l86, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., in considering the question whether certain evidence can be considered corroborative evidence in the sense in which Judges require corroboration of an accomplice's statement within the meaning of Section 114 , illustration (b), they take it for granted that the rule is to require such corroboration.
Precedent	86.
Precedent	As for the more recent decisions of this Presidency, <NAME> C.J., and <NAME>, in Queen Empress v. <NAME> (1880) I.L.R.
Precedent	12 Mad.
Precedent	196, laid down that a Judge should caution the jury not to accept the evidence of an approver unless it is corroborated and the omission to do so would amount to a misdirection.
Precedent	<CITATION_1181242> (1902) I.L.R.
Precedent	25 Mad.
Precedent	143, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., held that the evidence of an accomplice ought to be corroborated in some mater ial circumstance and in Emperor v. <NAME> (1903) I.L.R.
Precedent	26 Mad.
Precedent	I, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., state that an accurate statement of the law on the subject will be to say that as a general rule it is unsafe to act upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice but there may be especial circumstances in which it would not be unsafe to act upon such evidence.
Precedent	<CITATION_1343966> (1904) I.L.R.
Precedent	37 Mad.
Precedent	271, <NAME> J., said that the Indian Law in this matter was borrowed from the English Law as held in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1866) 5 W.R. Cr.
Precedent	R. 80 the Judge ought not to direct the jury to acquit if the case against the prisoner rested mainly upon the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice, but it was sufficient if the Judge advised the jury not to convict upon such evidence, as stated in Reg.
Precedent	V. Boyes (186l) 9 <NAME>'s C, C., 32.
Argument	<NAME>, J., however would go further, holding that it would be the duty of the judge in such a case to direct; the jury to acquit.
Argument	The matter on being referred to <NAME> , J., he agreed with <NAME>, as to the proper scope of the law on the subject and pointed out that it was the duty of the Judge to explain to the jury that it was not safe to convict upon the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice and if there was no corroboration of the accomplice in a material particular, to draw their attention to the fact.
Precedent	The Judge ought also to add, he says, that a conviction upon such testimony is perfectly legal, and if a jury bearing in mind the caution still believed the evidence it would be their duty to convict.
Precedent	The learned Judge observes that the practice not to convict upon the evidence of an accomplice unless there is corroboration has been so hallowed by time as to be deserving of respect and that in fact the rule of law as laid down by Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act is practically rendered nugatory by the rule of practice.
Precedent	In Queen-Empress v. <NAME> and <NAME> (1891) 1 M.L.J.
Precedent	397, a Full Bench of this Court consisting of <NAME>, <NAME> <NAME>,  <NAME>, <NAME>, and <NAME>, JJ., observe that it has now become a general rule of practice that the Judge ought to advise the jury to acquit unless the evidence of the accomplice is corroborated; and in In re <NAME> (1900) 5 M.L.T., 355, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., stated that it was a general rule of practice that it was not safe to convict upon the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice, The recent rulings of the other <ORG> are to the same effect.
Precedent	<NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., in <ORG> v. <NAME> (1886) I.L.R.
Precedent	10 Bom.
Precedent	319, say that Section 114 , illustration (b), lays down the ordinary rule that an accomplice is unworthy of credit unless he is corroborated in material particulars and that it was an established rule of practice that the accomplices must be corroborated by independent evidence as to the identity of every person he impeaches.
Precedent	<NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., in <ORG> v. Maganlal (1890) I.L.R.
Precedent	4 Bom.
Precedent	116, also enunciate the law to the same effect saying that it is the  established practice to require corroboration of an accomplice's evidence and it is for those who want such evidence to be acted upon to allege reasons why the ordinary test of the evidence of accomplices should not be applied in a particular case.
Precedent	In King-Emperor v. Malhar (1902) I.L.R.
Precedent	26 Bom.
Precedent	193, <NAME> and <NAME>, <NAME>.. while admitting the existence of the general rule, point out that all persons coming within the category of accomplices cannot be treated as on precisely the same footing.
Precedent	In King-Emperor v. <NAME> (1905) 7 Bom.
Precedent	L.R.
Precedent	969, <NAME>, <NAME>, and <NAME>, J., point out that the absolute rule of law on the subject of accomplices' testimony is contained in Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act, there is further a rule of guidance which is embodied in Section 114 , illustration (b), and that it would be an error of law to disregard the presumption indicated in the latter rule.
Precedent	In Calcutta, <NAME> and <NAME>, <NAME>., in <CITATION_1583931> (1900) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Cal.
Precedent	144, point out that the presumption sta ted in illustration (b) to Section 114 has become a rule of practice of almost universal application and in <CITATION_1484160> (1901) I.L.R.
Precedent	88 Calc.
Precedent	339 <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ, observe that ordinarily speaking the evidence of an accomplice should be corroborated in material particulars and the practice, which has been laid down, has be come, one may say, apart of the law itself, <CITATION_286162> (1902) I.L.R.
Precedent	29 Calc.
Precedent	782, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., observed that the Sessions Judge ought to have told the jury that though the law permits of a conviction being based upon the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice, yet it was not the practice of our courts to convict on such evidence.
Precedent	It was a misdirection to tell a jury that the evidence of the accomplice wag corroborated by a fact which did not amount to any corroboration at all.
Precedent	<CITATION_646365> (1906) I.L.R.
Precedent	33 Calc.
Precedent	649, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., recognise the rule of practice which lays flown that it is generally wrong to convict upon the uncorroborated  evidence of an accomplice but they agree with the proposition stated in King-Emperor v. Malhar (1902) I.L.R.
Precedent	26 Bom.
Precedent	193, that the rule does not apply in equal force to all persons corning technically within the category.
Precedent	In a recent important trial under the Criminal Law Amendment Act , 1908, for an offence under Section 121-A of the Indian Penal Code in <ORG>, <CITATION_1033901> (1911) I.L.R.
Precedent	38 Calc.
Precedent	559, it was conceded before <ORG> as a proposition which was not open to question that before the approver's testimony could be acted on it must be corroborated in material particulars, that the nature and extent of this corroboration was well settled, there must be corroboration not only as do the crime but also as to the identity of each one of the accused.
Precedent	The learned Judges observe that this is no technical rule but founded on long judicial experience.
Precedent	87.
Precedent	In <ORG>, the law was fully considered by <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., in <CITATION_1146694> (1886) I.L.R .
Precedent	2 All.
Precedent	906, and they held (hat the law in India as contained in the Indian Evidence Act is the same as in England, viz., that though a conviction is not illegal, that is, not unlawful if it is based on accomplices' testimony alone, experience teaches us that it is not safe to rely upon such evidence unless it is corroborated, and it is the practice of Judges both in England and in India when sitting alone to guard their minds carefully against the evidence of approvers, The corroboration, they observe, must extend to the identity of the accused persons.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., also points out that the tendency of late years in England is to apply the rule with great strictness, and, as I shall show, the practice of <ORG> is to set aside a verdict of guilty if the Judge did not advise the jury not to act upon the testimony of an accomplice.
Precedent	<CITATION_510764> (1887) I.L.R.
Precedent	9 All.
Precedent	523 Edge, C.J., says that as a general rub it would be unsafe to convict an accused person on the uncorroborated evide nce of an accomplice and a Judge should advise the jury to that effect.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is at the same time not only open to the jury but it is their duty if they believe such evidence in spite of the caution to bring in a verdict of guilty.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. King- Emperor (1901) 1 A.L.J.
Precedent	110, <NAME>, J, observes that the evidence of an accomplice cannot be acted upon without corroboration in material particulars, unless it is such that the Court can unhesitatingly believe it.
Precedent	88.
Precedent	I wish to allude very briefly to the rulings in some English cases decided after the date of the judgment of Sir <NAME> in <NAME> case as the English decisions prior to that judgment are exhaustively doubt with there.
Precedent	In Reg, v. Cramp (1880) l4 <NAME>.
Precedent	C.C.
Precedent	390, Denman, J., observes that there is no doubt that the evidence of an accomplice requires corroboration.
Precedent	In Reg.
Precedent	v. Gallagher and Ors.
Precedent	(1883) 15 <NAME>.
Precedent	C.C.
Precedent	291, the Lord Chief Justice <NAME> in his direction to the jury observed "if the jury upon the evidence of the approv er himself was perfectly satisfied that he was speaking the truth there was no reason in point of law why on his evidence they should not act and find the accused guilty, but the danger of acting upon the uncorroborated statement of an approver was obvious and the wisdom of requiring that some corroborative evidence should be given before such statements are acted upon was perfectly apparent to any intelligent mind.
Precedent	The law was as he had stated and the practice was always to require corroboration," In In re <NAME> (1894) 2 Q.B., 415, where the question was whether the evidence of an accomplice if uncorroborated was sufficient to justify a committal for surrender to France, <NAME>, J.,' held that it was not the law that a prisoner must necessarily be acquitted in the absence of corroborative evidence and there was no power in the Court to withdraw a case from the jury on that ground.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> (1908) 2 K.B.
Precedent	680, Lord <NAME> delivering the judgment of <ORG> while pointing out that  there was no definite rule of law that a parson cannot be convicted upon the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice as staked by <NAME>, J., in In re <NAME>, observed that he ought to have added" assuming that the jury was cautioned in accordance with the ordinary practice' and then cites the following passage from <NAME> on Evidence, 10th Edition, page 638, as containing a correct exposition of the law: Judges...in their discretion, generally advise a jury not to convict a prisoner upon the testimony of an accomplice alone and although the adoption of this practice will not be enforced by a court of review, its omission will, in most cases, be deemed a neglect of duty on the part of a Judge.
Precedent	Considering too the respect which is always paid by the jury to such advice from the bench, it may be regarded as the settled course of practice not to convict a prisoner, excepting under very special circumstances."
Precedent	<NAME> also cites with approval a passage from Russel on Crimes, 6th Edition, Volume III, page 646: "It may  be observed that the practice in question has obtained go much sanction from legal authority, that it deserves all the reverence of law,' and a deviation from it in any particular case would be justly considered of questionable propriety."
Precedent	89.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> 73 J.P., 269 at p. 271, <ORG> (<ORG> and <NAME>, <ORG>) laid down that a Judge should direct a jury to acquit if the evidence against the accused is that of a parson put for ward as an accomplice and his evidence is not corroborated in some material particular, that is to say, in some particular that involves the guilt of the accused.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> 73 J.P. 359 <ORG> quashed a conviction on the ground that there was vary little, if any, evidence of corroboration proper to go to the jury and that the Judge did not adequately direct the jury that they should acquit the appellant if the accomplice's story was not corroborated in some material particular, that is, in some particular that involved th e guilt of the accused.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., observed in his judgment that "The rule was very clear now about the evidence of an accomplice.-It must be corroborated in some material particular."
Precedent	It seems to ma that in the last two cases the words "directing the jury to acquit" should perhaps be understood in the sense of advising the jury to that effect and not in the sense of withdrawing the case from the jury,  90.
Precedent	It should be pointed out with reference to the judgments of <ORG> in England that though under 7 Edw.
Precedent	VII, Cap, 23, Section 3 , the prisoner is given an appeal as of right only on a question of law, the appellate court has the power in certain circumstances to review the verdict and conviction on a question of fact or of raised law and fact.
Precedent	But they seem to lay down generally that it is the duty of the Judge to advise the jury not to convict upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice and a failure to discharge that duty would ipso facto make the conviction liable to be set  aside.
Precedent	The power of this <ORG> to interfere under Article 26 of the Madras Letters Patent is however confined to matters of law and in this respect it is analogous to the power which <ORG> as a court of error has under 11 and 12 Vict., Cap 78.
Precedent	On the question therefore what would amount to an error in law in dealing with the evidence of an accomplice the decision of the <ORG> of Crown Oases Reserved in <NAME> v. <NAME> 25 L.J.M.C.
Precedent	16, is much relied on by the counsel for the <ORG>.
Precedent	But all that is said there is that it is not a rule of law that an accomplice must be corroborated in material particulars but is only a rule of practice and a question of practice cannot be reserved for the opinion of that court.
Precedent	In that case, the Judge had in fact cautioned the jury as to the case of <NAME>- where there was no corroboration and what the <ORG> of <ORG> Cases Reserved held was that his failure to advise the jury not to convict was an omission to observe a rule merely of practice.
Precedent	It is clear however tha t the tendency of the more recent English decisions is to invest the practice with the stringency of law; that in India also, an omission to advise the jury in accordance with the practice would be an error in law is the view of Sir <NAME> and many other Judges as is apparent from the decisions I have referred to.
Precedent	91.
Precedent	My conclusion is that it is well established law that except, in circumstances of an especial nature, it is the duty of the court to raise the presumption that accomplices' evidence is unworthy of credit as against the accused persons unless it is corroborated in material particulars and the failure of the Judge to direct the jury to that effect is an error in law.
Precedent	It will none the less in my opinion be an error in law if the trial was held without a jury and the Judge or the magistrate misdirected himself on this point and treated an accomplice's evidence like that of any other witness.
Precedent	I do not perceive any principle on which the two cases may be distinguished.
Precedent	The next proposition wh ich is also well recognised is that if there are any especial circumstances which would justify a disregard of this rule, those circumstances in a ferial by a jury must be clearly set out in the directions of the Judge, and the appellate court is entitled to consider as a matter of law whether these circumstances are such as to justify the exceptional treatment.
Precedent	If, in the opinion of the appellate court, the facts in this connection are such that they in no sense negative the danger of acting upon the uncorroborated testimony of the accomplice but the Judge told the jury otherwise, the verdict must be set aside as being due ho an error in law; if the especial facts, however, are such as may reasonably be considered to take the case out of the rule even though i6 is possible to hold a difference view, the verdict cannot be interfered with by a court of error.
Precedent	A similar rule would hold good in cases tried by a Judge alone.
Precedent	This is substantially how I stated the law recently in <NAME> v. Emperor (1911) 1 M.W.
Precedent	N. 827.
Precedent	92.
Precedent	As regards the nature of corroboration, the law is that corroboration must relate not only to the crime but also to the identity of the prisoner, The question whether it can be said as a matter of law that the view of the trying Judge as to whether certain evidence does or does not amount to corroboration within the meaning of the rule is also governed by the same principle as I have just indicated.
Precedent	But the evidence given in court by an accomplice cannot be used to corroborate the evidence of another accomplice, though in exceptional circumstances (such as the second sub illustration to illustration (b) to Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act) the fact that the accounts given of the crime by different accomplices may be taken as corroboration of the evidence in court.
Precedent	On the other hand if the contention of the counsel for the <ORG> were well founded that, since the question whether the evidence of an accomplice is to be deemed to be untrustworthy unless it is corroborated in material particular s cannot be determined without referring to the facts of the particular case in which the evidence is given, therefore in no ease, where a judge of facts has acted upon such evidence, can it be said that in failing to raise such a presumption he has erred in law, however grossly palpable the facts may be which show the danger of acting upon such evidence alone, then all that has been said hitherto by learned Judges in England and India on the subject of accomplices' evidence would have no meaning whatever, For it would logically follow from such an argument that the law imposes no especial duty on the court in dealing with accomplices' evidence and the general rule that an accomplice's evidence should no be acted upon unless it is corroborated, the soundness of which, as Lord Chief Justice <NAME> puts it, is obvious to any intelligent mind, would lose all significance in law, if its disregard in any case cannot be set right as a matter of law, because in some cases of rare occurrence the rule may not be ap plicable.
Precedent	93.
Precedent	This bring me to the second question propounded in the certificate.
Precedent	It is in these words;-  That the opinion of the majority of the Court that the previous abatements of an accomplice can legally amount to corroboration of the evidence given by him at the trial should be further considered.
Precedent	94.
Precedent	The answer to be deduced from the above discussion of the law is that as a general rule the previous statements of an accomplice do not legally amount to such corroboration as is required to rebut the presumption as to the unreliability of an accomplice's evidence, but there may be cases in which the circumstances in which the previous statement was made by precluding the possibility of the accused having been falsely named therein by the approver would lend corroborative force to the accomplice's evidence.
Precedent	The only direct decision on the point is <ORG> and <NAME>.
Precedent	(1874) 11 Bom.
Precedent	H.C.R.
Precedent	196 where the rule is stated in unqualified terms and in Vyasa-Rao v. Emperor (1911) 1 M.W.N.
Precedent	327 in  which the question arose before <NAME>, J., and myself whether evidence of a co-accomplice was sufficient corroboration within the meaning of the law, I expressed my agreement with what is laid down in the Bombay case, while I still adopt generally what is laid down in <CITATION_1892267> .
Precedent	(1874) 11 Bom.
Precedent	H.C.R.
Precedent	196, it seems to me on further consideration that, to be quite accurate, the rule must be stated subject to the qualification which I have suggested, and I may point out that neither the learned Judges of <ORG> nor I were called upon in the case mentioned above to consider whether the rule was subject to any qualification.
Precedent	Having regard to the fact that the previous statement of an accomplice is admissible in evidence, as is assumed in the second ground of the certificate, and to the nature of the cases cited by the legislature, which shows that corroboration may he furnished by previous statements of accomplices made in certain circumstances, it would be difficult to hold that the rule  does not admit of exceptions.
Precedent	95.
RatioOfTheDecision	The previous statements mainly relied on by the majority of <ORG> are those made by the approvers, <NAME> and <NAME> respectively, to the polled, the first, two days, and the second, three days, after the murder of Mr. <NAME> and also to some extent on She statements made by them a few days afterwards to Mr. <NAME>, who made a local enquiry in the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards the statements to the police officer, I am of opinion that they were wrongly admitted in evidence on the ground nest mentioned in the certificate and it would not therefore be necessary to consider how far, if admissible, they could be taken as amounting to corroboration of the approver's evidence in court.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards the statements made to Mr. <NAME> no objection can be taken to their admissibility but so far as at present advised I fail to see how they can be held to afford corroborative evidence within the meaning of the rule.
RatioOfTheDecision	They were made long after the last meeting at which the criminal oath was  taken and several days after the approvers bad been in the hands of the police in connection with the murder of Mr. <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Judges who formed the majority of <ORG> do not find that these approvers did not make the statements to Mr. <NAME> in the hops of being pardoned, nor do they say that the circumstances in which the statements were made precluded the possibility of their acting in concert, On the other hand, it is found by Mr. Justice <NAME> that the evidence points to the probability of their so acting.
RatioOfTheDecision	No doubt the learned Chief Justice and Mr. Justice <NAME> say that some of the accused allege that they were strangers to Arumugam and <NAME> and therefore their names could not have been mentioned by the approvers unless they participated in the conspiracy.
RatioOfTheDecision	That allegation has been found by the learned Judges to be untrue, but they do not find that in fact these accused came to be known to the approvers only by reason of their being members of the criminal conspiracy; on  the other hand, it is found in their judgment that there was an association called <ORG> which according to them though of a seditious tendency was not actually a criminal association and some of the accused at least were members of that association, The fact that the <ORG> could not have concocted the earlier or the later statements of the approvers does not meet the difficulty.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am not prepared to hold upon the facts so far as they appear in the judgments of the Special Bench that the statements to Mr. <NAME> would be such corroborative evidence as to minimise the danger of acting upon the testimony of the approvers.
RatioOfTheDecision	I may also observe that most of the considerations which I have indicated as applicable to the statements made to the magistrates are also applicable to those made to the <ORG> officer four days previously.
RatioOfTheDecision	96.
RatioOfTheDecision	The objection taken in the third ground to the admissibility of the statements made by two of the approvers to the Inspector of <ORG> ment is, in my opinion, well founded.
RatioOfTheDecision	Those statements are admitted under Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act, not on the ground that they were made at the time when the fact of seditious conspiracy to which they relate took place, for the last act in connection with the seditious conspiracy spoken to by the approvers had taken place months before the making of the statements, but on the ground that they were made to an "authority competent to investigate the fact."
Fact	The statements were made in the course of an investigation in the case of the murder, of Mr. <NAME>.
Fact	It is moreover the finding of the Special Bench that the murder of Mr. <NAME> was not in pursuance of the criminal conspiracy, the subject of the present trial, and the one had no real connection with the other.
Fact	Now supposing that the officer of <ORG> prosecution witness No.
Precedent	31-had authority to inquire into the murder of Mr. <NAME> he would have no authority to investigate the fact of a conspiracy dealt with under Sect ion 121-A of the Indian Penal Code, which is a non cognizable offence, without a magistrate's warrant (sea Section 105 .
Precedent	Criminal Procedure Code ).
Precedent	Neither prosecution witness No.
Precedent	31 nor Mr. <NAME> had any such warrant.
Precedent	Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act say a that the authority must be competent to investigate the fact, i.e., the fact to which the statement relates.
Precedent	Here the fact is the conspiracy and this fact the officers concerned in the case had no authority to investigate at the time the statements were made, But it is said that the statements were made in the course of an investigation of an offence which was within the competency of the <ORG> officers, I do not however see how that makes the language of Section 157 applicable.
Precedent	97.
Precedent	One would not in my opinion be justified in construing Section 157 in a loose general sense having regard to the fact that it permits a statement, made in the absence of a party to a proceeding which he had no means of testing, to be used in evidence against him.
Precedent	Such  departure from the ordinary rule relating to judicial evidence must be confined within the strictest limits.
Precedent	98.
Precedent	I may mention that it was argued by the pleaders for the accused that the word "investigate" in Section 157 in the Indian Evidence Act is used in the technical sense of the Criminal Procedure Code .
Precedent	But this is dearly not so.
Precedent	The application of that section of the Indian Evidence Act is not confined to criminal cases and the word "investigate' is obviously used in its natural and popular meaning.
Precedent	99.
Precedent	It is further urged in support of the third ground that <NAME>, prosecution witness No.
Precedent	31., was not even competent to investigate the murder of Mr. <NAME>.
Precedent	The question is dealt with in the judgment of the majority of <ORG> at page 272 and by Mr. Justice <NAME> at page 355.
Precedent	The question is not free from difficulty, but after careful consideration of it, I am inclined to think that the weight of reasoning is decidedly in favour of the view taken by Mr. Justice <NAME> ir.
Precedent	There is nothing indeed that I can usefully add to his arguments based on the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code on which the decision of the question depends.
Precedent	I may observe that Section 21 of the Police Act XXIV of 1859 throws no light inasmuch as the sections of that Act which defined the powers of a Police officer have been replaced by the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code , Nor does the confidential Government Order (G. O.
Precedent	No.
Precedent	913, Judicial, dated 2nd July 1908) adduced in evidence on behalf of the Crown make out that an Inspector of <ORG> is vested with the powers of investigation under the Code .
Precedent	100.
Precedent	The department was created to assist the ordinary police force in the detection of certain crimes and neither that fact nor the fact that a member of <ORG> holds the rank of an Inspector would by itself entitle him to exercise the same powers within <ORG> as an officer in charge of a police-station has wi thin the local limits of his station under Section 156 , Criminal Procedure Code .
Precedent	101.
Precedent	The fourth question raised by the certificate is whether previous statements of the two approvers, <NAME> and <NAME>, are not inadmissible in evidence against the accused persons by virtue of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act.
Precedent	That section runs thus: "No confession made to a police officer shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence "I agree with the contention of Mr. <NAME> that the words" a person" there mean ''any person" but the real point in connection with the applicability of the section to the statements of the approvers is, what is the meaning in which the word "confession" is used in that section?
Precedent	It could not have been used in the wide and popular sense in which it is used in every day conversation as meaning an acknowledgment of some fault, for that would make the section ridiculous, and there can be little doubt that it is to be understood in the technical sense of She  criminal law.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is apparent from the fact that the word is used in connection with criminal inquiries and trials in all the sections in which it occurs, namely, Sections 24 to 30 .
RatioOfTheDecision	What then is that meaning?
RatioOfTheDecision	It is suggested that "confession" in criminal law means an admission of certain facts which constitute an offence or lead to an inference of guilt.
RatioOfTheDecision	Yes, but admission by whom?
Precedent	When the word is used in the technical sense of the criminal law, does it not always mean such an admission as above referred to when made by a person who is charged with the offence which is the subject-matter of the statement?
Precedent	That is at least how I have always understood the word.
Precedent	One does not talk of the confession of a witness except in a popular sense.
Precedent	If the word as used in Section 25 be understood with reference to the question whether the person making it was ever tried or not for the offence to which he confesses, then it would follow that any statement by a witness to a police officer which leads to an inference of gu ilt under the general provisions of any Act, however unconnected with the offence under inquiry, would be inadmissible by reason of this section.
Precedent	Suppose A who does not possess the necessary license rent his servant with a quantity of opium for sale and the servant returning after having sold the opium is robbed of the money, could it be said that in a trial of persons charged with the robbery the statement of the master made to a police officer immediately after the occurrence that he had sent the servant to sell opium could not be received in evidence under Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act, because the witness' statement would amount to a confession of an offence under the Excise Act ?
Precedent	I think not.
Precedent	There could be no good reason for excluding such statement on the more ground, that it was made to a police officer.
Precedent	The fact is, whether a statement is to be called a confession or not depends not merely upon the nature of the statement itself, but also on the use that is sought to be made of it.
Precedent	Whenever  the Evidentiary value of a statement as against the person making it is in question, it is then that it would be properly called an admission or confession according as the proceeding in which the question arises is of a civil or criminal nature, but not when it is intended to be used as evidence against a third person.
Precedent	For it cannot be disputed that an admission or confession means a statement amounting to an acknowledgment of certain legal liability or of facts which give rise to such liability against the parson making the acknowledgment; then bow can such statement be called either admission or confession in a case where the only question for consideration is, how far the liability of a third person and not of the person making the statement, is established thereby.
Precedent	Much stress is laid, on the fact that in Section 25 confession is not expressly mentioned as of an accused parson while it is so used in Section 24 , but if the word has a well-known meaning in the criminal law, as X think it has, then this ar gument has no force.
Precedent	I am fortified in the interpretation 1 have put on the word "confession" in Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act by the definition of "confession" given in Stephen's Digest, Article 131 , which was adopted by <NAME>, J. in <CITATION_1474388> (1834) I.L.R.
Precedent	6 All.
Precedent	509 at p. 539 (F.B.).
Precedent	On this point therefore, I agree with the majority of <ORG>.
Precedent	102.
Precedent	The last ground of the certificate is that Section 162 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which lays down "No statement made by any person to a police officer in the course of an investigation under this chapter shall, if taken down in writing, be signed by the parson making it, nor shall such writing be used as evidence," forbids not only the use of the writing as evidence of the statement, but of the statement itself even if it is sought to be proved without the writing.
Precedent	But the contention is hopeless in face of the language of the legislature.
Precedent	Supposing the statement made by the approvers were admissible under Section 157 of the Ind ian Evidence Act, could it be said that Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure stands in the way?
Precedent	According to the ordinary rule of interpretation the two enactments must be reconciled with each other if possible and if we confine the declaration of the legislature in Section 162 of the Criminal Procedure Code to what is expressed there, it may well stand with Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act.
Precedent	[ therefore agree with the view of <ORG> on this point which is also the view taken by <NAME>, C.J.
Precedent	and <NAME>, J., in <CITATION_390792> (1909) I.L.R.
Precedent	36 Cal.
Precedent	281 and of <NAME>, J. in <NAME> v. King-Emperor 7 A.L.J.
Precedent	463.
Precedent	103.
Precedent	The result of what I have said is that those prisoners, in my opinion, must be acquitted and discharged, whose convictions rest on the testimony of the approvers without any corroboration, independently of the previous statements of these witnesses made Co the Police officer <NAME> or to Mr. <NAME>, unless the learned Counsel for the Crown wishes to a rgue that there are facts and circumstances not mentioned in the judgment of the majority of <ORG>, which, by themselves or if considered along with those noticed in the judgment of the <ORG>, take the ease out of the general rule that an accomplice must be deemed unworthy of credit unless he is corroborated in material particulars, or that there is evidence apart from that relied on by the majority of <ORG>, which furnishes the necessary corroboration within the meaning of the rule as I have stated it.
Precedent	In that event, the case must be argued further, for under Section 26 of the Letters Patent as I read it, a sentence is not to be set aside simply because there is an error of law involved in the direction of the Judge to the jury or in the judgment of a Judge sitting without a jury if such error has not occasioned a miscarriage of justice.
Precedent	104.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	(Preliminary objection),-With, regard to the preliminary objection that the Advocate- General had no power in this case to ma ke a certificate under Clause 26 of the Letters Patent, there can, in my opinion, be no doubt that it is unsustainable.
Precedent	The conviction of the accused was under the Criminal Law Amendment Act , XIV of 1908.
Precedent	That statute entitles the Governor-General in Council or <ORG> to direct that the special procedure prescribed therein should apply to the proceedings in respect of any offence of which a magistrate has taken cognizance.
Precedent	According to the special procedure enacted by the Act, a magistrate who arrives at the finding that the evidence adduced before him is sufficient to put the accused upon his trial for an offence specified in the schedule to the Act should commit him for trial to <ORG>.
Precedent	Section 11 of the Act provides that "all persons sent for trial to <ORG> under the Act shall be tried by <ORG> of the Court composed of three Judges."
Precedent	Section 14 lays down that "The provisions of the Coda of Criminal Procedure, 1898, shall not apply to proceedings taken under this pa rt, in so far as they are inconsistent with the special procedure prescribed in this part."
Precedent	105.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> contends that cases tinder the Act must be governed only by the special procedure laid down therein and that there is no provision in it for any review by this <ORG>, either upon any reservation of a point or points of law by the <ORG> trying the case, or on certificate by the Advocate General that in his judgment there is an error in the decision of a point or points of law decided by the Special <ORG>, or that the point or points of law which has or have been decided by it should be further considered, But it is quite clear that Act XIV of 1908 does not purport to lay down any complete rule of procedure and that the ordinary criminal procedure is applicable to proceedings under the Act, except so far as it is inconsistent with the special procedure prescribed in the Act.
Precedent	Obviously certification by the Advocate-General under Clause 26 of the Letters Patent is not inconsistent with the special procedur e prescribed in Act XIX of 1908.
Precedent	106.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> next contends that the Advocate-General's jurisdiction to make a certificate extends only to cases coming within the purview of clauses 23 and 24 of the Letters Patent and that these clauses do not include a case of conviction on a committal to <ORG> under Act XIV of 1908 by a mofussil magistrate, of persona beyond the ordinary original jurisdiction of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	I shall presently examine whether clauses 23 and 24 would include such a case or not.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it is clear to my mind that, assuming they would not, Clause 26 is wide enough to cover (she case, This clause gives power ho <ORG> to review' (on the Advocate-General's certificate) in every case mentioned in Clause 25.
RatioOfTheDecision	The latter clause refers to "any criminal trial before the courts of original criminal jurisdiction which may be constituted by one or more Judges of the said <ORG>."
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no reference in the clause to clauses 23 and 24 and there is nothing in the words limiting it s operation to the cases comprised in clauses 23 and 24.
RatioOfTheDecision	There can be no doubt that a trial under Act XIV of 1908 is a trial before '' <ORG> original criminal jurisdiction" constituted by one or more Judges of the said <ORG>."
RatioOfTheDecision	The committal under Act XIV of 1908 is to the <ORG> as such and <ORG> three Judges of the <ORG> is constituted for the trial by the Chief Justice of the <ORG>, acting under Section 14 of the <ORG>'s Act, 24 and 25 Vict., Cap.
RatioOfTheDecision	104.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact that Act XIV of 1903 was passed long after the Letters Patent is no reason for holding that clauses 25 and 26 do not apply to a trial before <ORG> original criminal jurisdiction constituted by Judges of the <ORG> under that Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are clearly applicable to all original criminal trials by the <ORG>, whether under an Act existing at the time of the Letters Patent or an Act passed subsequently.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clause 20 refers to the trial of persons within the local limits of the <ORG>'s ordinary civil jurisdict ion, and of other persons beyond its limits over whom <ORG> had criminal jurisdiction at the date of the publication of the Letters Patent.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clause 24 ordains that <ORG> "shall have extraordinary original criminal jurisdiction over all persons residing in places within the jurisdiction of any <ORG> now subject to the superintendence of the said High <ORG> and shall have authority to try at its discretion any such persons brought before is on charges preferred by the Advocate-General or by any magistrate or other officer specially empowered by the <ORG> in that behalf," It is admitted by Mr. <NAME> that the power in this section will extend to cases where the magistrate or other special officer referred to therein prefers charges under authority which they possess under any law, whether existing at the time of the Letters Patent or coming into existence subsequently.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no reason for not placing a similar construction on clauses 25 and 26.
RatioOfTheDecision	This would be a sufficient ground for holdi ng that the preliminary point must fail.
RatioOfTheDecision	107.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am, however, also of opinion that it is not shown that clauses 23 and 24 would not cover this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clause 24, as already mentioned, gives power to <ORG> to try any person brought before it on charges preferred by any magistrate or other special officer empowered by the Govern merit in that behalf.
RatioOfTheDecision	For the decision of this case there are two points for consideration as to the meaning of this sentence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Does the expression "specially empowered" refer only to "other officer," or also to "any magistrate"?
RatioOfTheDecision	And secondly, what is the meaning of the expression "charges preferred by any magistrate" or other officer specially empowered by the <ORG>?
RatioOfTheDecision	The non-repetition of the word "by" before the words "other officer" is relied on as showing that both the magistrate and other officer referred to in the clause should be persons specially empowered by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is, no doubt, force in this argument, but it seems to me to be doubtful whether it is sound  in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The powers of magistrates are usually determined by general provisions in the Criminal Procedure Code or other statutory enactments It does not appear that there was any provision of law at the time of the Letters Patent empowering the <ORG> to give special authority to particular magistrates to prefer a criminal charge, The non-repetition of the word "by" before "other officer" may be due to the fact that the legislature intended to put the Advocate-General under one category and "magistrate and other officer," under another and distinct category.
RatioOfTheDecision	After all, it would only" be a matter of caution to repeat the word "by" to show clearly that the qualification "specially empowered" did not apply to the noun before it, Then with respect to the expression "charges preferred by," the contention on behalf of the <ORG> is that it means, as applied to a magistrate, commitments made by him to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is not the usual moaning of the expression, The preferring of a charge generally means  the laying of a charge or complaint in order that it may be enquired into and not a committal bused on enquiry already made, This is certainly the meaning of the expression in this very sentence as applied to Advocate-General.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no apparent reason for giving it a different meaning in applying it to a magistrate.
RatioOfTheDecision	The clause seems to authorize <ORG> to try a person brought before it on a charge preferred by any magistrate having authority to prefer it (without being specially empowered to do so by <ORG>).
RatioOfTheDecision	There is nothing in, the clause to show that the charge must be preferred directly to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Magistrates and other officers generally have no power to do so, though the Advocate-General has and always had.
Precedent	See Section 194 , Criminal Procedure Code , and Cyolopaedia of the Laws of England, Vol.
Precedent	I, under the beading Attorney-General," page 624, second edition, It is not shown that any magistrates or other officers besides the Advocate-General bad, at the date of the Letters Patent,  the power in any case to prefer a charge directly to <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The clause does not seem to require more than that the charge in the case should have been preferred by a magistrate having legal authority to do so and that the accused in the case should also be brought before the <ORG> in a lawful manner.
RatioOfTheDecision	The charge against the accused in this ease was admittedly preferred by a magistrate.
RatioOfTheDecision	The accused were admittedly brought before this <ORG> in a lawful manner,  108.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am not therefore satisfied that Clause 24 does not apply to the cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it is unnecessary to decide this question, as it is clear to me, for the reasons already mentioned, that clauses 25 and 26 are applicable to all oases of original criminal trials before <ORG> under whatever provision of law that trial may be held.
Precedent	109.
Precedent	The first point.-The first point that the Advocate-General's certificate states should be further considered by the <ORG> is "the opinion of the majority of the <ORG> that the evidence of an accomplice need  not be corroborated in material particulars before it can be acted upon, and that it would be open to the <ORG> to convict on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice if the <ORG> was satisfied that the evidence was true."
Precedent	This would seem prima facie to be opposed to the very words of Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act which lays down in positive terms that "a conviction is not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice."
Precedent	The Advocate-General's meaning however is explained by the further abatement in the certificate that "it requires to be further considered whether Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act, read with Section 114 , illustration (b), does not merely intend to lay down that a conviction upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice is not illegal where the presumption of untrustworthiness attaching to the evidence of an accomplice is rebutted by special circumstances."
RatioOfTheDecision	But again it is hardly possible to suppose that the Advocate-General mean s to suggest that the presumption referred to is one which the <ORG> is directed by law to make in all cases of the testimony of an accomplice and requiring to be rebutted by other evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	For, that would he directly contrary to the definition of "may presume" in Section 4 of the Act, according to which "whenever it is provided by this Act that the <ORG> may presume a fact it may either regard such-fact as proved unless and until it is disproved, or may call for proof of it," The argument for the accused at the hearing was and I take it in the view suggested by the Advocate-General also was, that, notwithstanding the liberty given to the <ORG> not to regard a fact referred to in Section 114 as not proved and to call for proof of it, the meaning and intention of the section must be token to be that ordinarily the presumption referred to in illustration (b) to Section 114 must be made and that special circumstances must be found by the <ORG> whenever it does not do so.
RatioOfTheDecision	It need hardly be observed that it is no t strictly correct fro express this meaning by saying that the presumption of untrustworthiness must be found to be rebutted by special circumstances.
RatioOfTheDecision	Understanding the certificate in the sense just mentioned I may, before dealing with the question raised therein, observe that it is not clear to ray mind why the learned Advocate-General considered it necessary to make a certificate on the point in this case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The majority of <ORG>-the learned CHIEF Justice, <NAME> observed that it would be open to them to convict the accused on the uncorroborated testimony of the accomplices, even if it stood alone, if they were satisfied that that evidence wag true and they do not expressly say that special reasons must exist for not presuming its untrustworthiness.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the conviction is not based by them, as far as I am able to see, on the testimony of the accomplice alone.
RatioOfTheDecision	After laying down the proposition of the law above mentioned, the learned Judges proceed to consider the nature of the corrobora tive evidence that is required in the case of accomplices' testimony.
RatioOfTheDecision	They then refer to the former statement of two of the accomplices to prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 as strongly corroborating their evidence given at the trial.
RatioOfTheDecision	They deal with the objections raised by the accused to the admissibility of former statements of accomplices in evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	They then say that the previous statements of the two approvers, <NAME> and <NAME>, which they hold to be admissible in evidence show that the defence theory that the evidence given by the approvers was the result of tutoring by the police or was concocted by the approvers themselves was quite unsustainable, and that, even apart from the previous statements to prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31, it is impossible to accept the theory of tutoring or concoction.
RatioOfTheDecision	They say "the impression left in our minds of the three approver witnesses was favourable to the general truth of their story" and give reasons in support of that impression.
RatioOfTheDecision	They afterwards proceed to deal with  the nature of the other corroborative evidence adduced in the case and of the defence set up by the accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	They then proceed to deal with all the evidence on record against each of the accused persons including both the testimony of the approvers and the corroborative evidence adduced by the prosecution, and with the evidence let in by each of the accused on his behalf, and come to a conclusion with respect to the guilt or innocence of each of the accused, on the whole of the evidence let in both for the prosecution and for the defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Judges do not say, as indeed it was unnecessary for them to say, whether they would convict any of the accused on the evidence of the approvers alone.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if we should now coma to the conclusion that the general proposition enunciated by the majority of <ORG> that it was open to them to convict the accused on the uncorroborated evidence of the approvers is not sound, this conclusion would not affect their judgment which is not based on such uncorrob orated accomplices' testimony alone.
RatioOfTheDecision	In my opinion, it would be open to us, sitting as a Court of review, to decline to express any opinion on the point raised in the Advocate-General's certificate.
Precedent	I may further point out that the counsel for the accused did not, during the arguments before us, question the soundness of the proposition laid down by the majority that they had the power, as a matter of law, to convict the accused on the uncorroborated evidence of the approvers if they believed that evidence.
Precedent	They could hardly venture to do so.
Precedent	The argument before us was that the learned Judges should have presumed the untrustworthiness of the evidence of the accomplices unless they could refer to special circumstances justifying their not doing so, and that no such special circumstances are referred to in their judgment.
Precedent	They have therefore, it is urged, committed an error of law in not making the presumption.
Precedent	But assuming this argument is well founded, it is, as already pointed out, altogether irrelevant as t he conviction is not based on the testimony of the accomplices alone.
Precedent	110.
Precedent	Although for the reasons mentioned above, it is open to the Court to decline to deal with the question raised in the certificate, 1 consider if desirable to state my opinion on it as it has been discussed at great length, both on behalf of the accused and the <ORG>.
Precedent	The arguments traversed a wide field dealing with the English law relating to the evidence of accomplices from very early times and the law in India both before and after the enactment of the Indian Evidence Act I of 1872.
Precedent	The law in India at the present day must be found in the provisions contained in the Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	It is a complete code of the law of evidence applicable to this country.
Precedent	It purports not only to consolidate and to amend, but also to define the law of evidence.
Precedent	<CITATION_1325890> (1900) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Calc.
Precedent	11.
Precedent	If the language of the provisions of the Code is clear, then that language is decisive of the law.
Precedent	See <ORG> (1891) L.R.
Precedent	pp.
Precedent	Cases.
Precedent	107, and <CITATION_11201> (1896) I.L.R.
Precedent	23 Calc.
Precedent	563 (P.C.
Precedent	), though where the words are not clear, light may be derived as to their meaning from an investigation of the law as it was understood prior to its enactment.
Precedent	See <NAME> v. <NAME> (1872) 4 P.C.
Precedent	543 at p. 550, <NAME> v. <ORG> (1892) A.C. 481 at p. 487 and <CITATION_964738> (1909) I.L.R.
Precedent	36 Calc.
Precedent	543.
Precedent	The principle laid down in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1904) 2 K.B.
Precedent	859, with regard to the construction of statutes which purport merely to consolidate the previous law on a subject does not hold good in the interpretation of a statute which codifies a particular branch of law.
Precedent	If, then, the provisions of Sections 333 and 114 of the Indian Evidence Acs express with clearness and certainty the law to be enforced wish respect to the testimony of accomplices, it would be of little use to investigate whether those provisions are in accordance with the previous law either in England or in India.
Precedent	111.
Precedent	It was urged on behalf of  the accused that the majority of <ORG> take the law in this country to be in accordance with the English law on the subject; and the opinions of Judges in other cases do the same effect are also cited to induce us to hold that the question should be decided in accordance with the English law.
Precedent	It is not however denied that the proper conclusion on the question should really be arrived at by the construction of the provisions to be found in the Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	My investigation of the English case law has not helped to make the conclusions to be arrived at on this point more certain than they would otherwise be.
Precedent	The counsel for the accused rest the strength of their case on Section 134 , illustration (b), of the Indian Evidence Act ;, which, they say, materially qualifies, Section 133 , which declares that the conviction of an accused on the testimony of an accomplice alone is legal.
Precedent	There can be no doubt that Section 114 should be read along with Section 133 in order to determine the manner in  which testimony of an accomplice should be dealt with before basing a conviction on his evidence alone.
Precedent	112.
Precedent	The Indian Evidence Act recognizes two classes of presumptions, corresponding to what are known as rebuttable presumptions of law and presumptions of fact in English law.
Precedent	Irrefutable presumptions under the English law are also recognized in the Act in Sections 113 and 113 , which make certain facts conclusive proof of other facts.
Precedent	AH the three classes are explained in Section 4 of the Act.
Precedent	Id is impossible to attach weight to any argument which is calculated to confound the two classes of presumptions which are clearly distinguished in the Act.
Precedent	It is not possible to countenance the view that the court is absolutely bound to regard a fact as proved, which, according to the positive language of Section 4 , it may either regard as proved or may call for proof of.
Precedent	On this point it is useless to appeal to the rules of English law to justify a departure from the provisions of the Indian Act .
Precedent	In English la w it is by no means clear what presumptions are regarded as presumptions of law and what are regarded merely as presumptions of fact.
Precedent	The same presumption is regarded, some-times as one of law and sometimes as one of fact.
Precedent	Another class of presumptions is also recognized in "Best on Evidence" as "mixed presumptions" or "presumptions of mixed law and fact," or, "presumptions of fact recognized by law."
Precedent	The learned author says: "These hold an intermediate place between the two former, and consist chiefly of certain presumptive inferences which, from their strength, importance, or frequent occurrence, attract, as it ware, the observation of the law; and from being constantly recommended by Judges and acted on by juries become in time as familiar to the courts as presumptions of law, and occupy nearly as important a place in the administration of justice."
Precedent	He also observes, "Unfortunately, however, the line of demarcation between the different species of presumptions has not always been observed with the requisit e precision.
Precedent	We find the same presumption spoken of by Judges, sometimes as a presumption of law, sometimes as a presumption of fact, sometimes as a presumption which juries should be advised to make, and sometimes as one which it was obligatory on them to make" (page 280, 10th Edition), To give only one illustration, the author regards the presumption that legal acts have been performed with the solemnities required by law as a presumption of fact-see page 308 Bug in "Tayler on Evidence" the same presumption is regarded as one of law.
Precedent	According to Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, the presumption is only one of fact.
Precedent	Sir <NAME> observes, with regard to Section 114 of the Act, "Finally, it declares in Section 114 that the court; may in all cases whatever, draw from the facts before it whatever inferable it thinks just.
Precedent	The terms of the section are such as to reduce to their proper position of mere maxims which are to be applied to facts by the courts in their discretion, a large number  of presumptions to which the English law gives, to a greater or less extent, an artificial value.
Precedent	Nine of the best important of them are given by way of illustration.
Precedent	"In applying the English law to this country it must be remembered that in England the law of evidence had a long and laboured development.
Precedent	Several classes of persons were at one time regarded as incompetent to testify at all.
Precedent	An accomplice wag one of the classes of persons regarded with disfavour as a witness.
Precedent	<NAME> in his learned treatise on Evidence (1904) points out (see Section 526 ).
Precedent	"It was frequently urged against an accomplice, during the 1600s and 1700s, that since by his own confession he was guilty of crime, this turpitude thus acknowledged made him as incompetent us if it were proved by conviction for the crime.
Precedent	This argument is only broadly related to the above maxim, (i.e., allegans turpitndinem suam allegans audiendus est) and yet, this relation is frequently noticed in the opinions dealing with the other instances.
Precedent	It must be  distinguished from the argument of disqualification as a co-indicate and I of disqualification by reason of a promise of pardon.
Precedent	The argument, however, was judicially repudiated from the very beginning,-partly on the ground of necessity, partly on the ground that turpitude, though self-confessed, was do hindrance unless there had been a conviction of crime."
Precedent	At common law again when two or more persons were trial upon the same charge, each was naturally disqualified to give evidence on account of their interest.
Precedent	This ground of disability was also in time swept away.
Precedent	With regard to the value of an accomplice's testimony, <NAME> observes ( Section 2056 ), "Through the 1600s and 1700s it, had to be ruled again and again that they were to by received as witnesses.
Precedent	But for a long time no question was made as to the sufficiency of their testimony when admitted.
Precedent	The quantitative conception of an oath tended to keep this question in the back ground.
Precedent	An oath, in the notions of the time, had a certain deadweight of it s own: one oath was as good as another oath.
Precedent	Should a witness once get in, the harm (they thought) was done; for there would be little weighing of the comparative quality of different persons' oaths.
Precedent	The struggle, therefore, was made at the threshold.
Precedent	As time went on, and the modern conception of testimony developed, the possibility of admitting a witness and yet discriminating as to the qualitative sufficiency of his testimony became more apparent; and the way was open for the consideration of this question.
Precedent	In a few instances, as the 1700s wore on, and even before (hen, judicial suggestions are found as to the feasibility of such a discrimination.
Precedent	But not until the end of that century does any <ORG> seem to have acted upon such a suggestion in its directions to the jury.
Precedent	About that time there comes into acceptance a general practice to discourage a conviction founded solely upon the testimony of an accomplice) uncorroborated.
Precedent	In 1784 in <ORG> (1748) 1 Leach Cr.
Precedent	L. IV Edn.
Precedent	479 (note), the Cou <ORG> thought it too dangerous to suffer a conviction...under such unsuppo<ORG>ed testimony."
Precedent	In 1788, however, it was established in B. v. Atwood (1787) 1 Leach Cr.
Precedent	L. 464 that such a conviction was perfectly legal.
Precedent	But although the question of the admissibility of the evidence of an accomplice had been long settled and the legality of a conviction based on the sole testimony of an accomplice was established in R. v. Atwood, the sentiment; against placing reliance on such evidence could not die out.
Precedent	It was bound to live and to remain strong under a system of law where questions of fact, both in civil and criminal matters wore left to the determination of juries.
Precedent	Reforms advocated by advanced thinkers no doubt succeeded in abolishing both a<ORG>ificial rules of admissibility and antiquated conceptions of the quantitative appraisement of evidence.
Precedent	But so long as the settlement of facts was left to juries, Judges could not but be impressed with the necessity of guiding their untrained appreciation of evidence and restra ining their vagaries both by advices and directions deemed necessary for rendering justice in individual cases.
Precedent	The legislature itself found it necessary to enact that the evidence of highly interested witnesses should be materially corroborated by independent evidence in particular classes of cases.
Precedent	In the case of an accomplice, moreover, he could be called as a witness only with the sanction and under the orders of the court after complying with certain legal formalities: the opinions of individual Judges regarding the unreliability of accomplices without corroboration could be enforced by refusing permission for their examination as witnesses.
Precedent	The result is that we find much variety and uncertainty in the manner in which accomplice evidence was treated in decided cases, while at the same time the principle is reiterated from time to times that there is no rule of law restraining the action of Judges and juries in dealing with such evidence, and Judges ostensibly refrained from any attempt to set up any pre sumption of law against its trustworthiness.
Precedent	The danger of ordinarily convicting on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice being manifest, it came to be regarded as the duty of the presiding Judge to draw their attention to the danger, in the same manner as it was his duty also to make such other comments on the evidence adduced as the nature of the case required.
Precedent	An examination of the decisions, however, shows much diversity in the actual practice of Judges in the manner in which this duty was discharged.
Precedent	In 1848 in <ORG> (1848)7 St. Tr.
Precedent	N.S.
Precedent	1111, Appx.
Precedent	A.
Precedent	(3 Cox C.C.
Precedent	526.)
Precedent	<NAME>, J., observed as follows: "The truth of the matter is there is no rule in law at all that an accomplice) cannot to believed unless he is confirmed.
Precedent	113.
Precedent	...It is an observation addressed, not to the court to exclude the evidence, but addressed to the jury who have to weigh the evidence, and it is for them to say whether the confirmation will satisfy them or whether they will be satisfied without any.
Precedent	If they are s atisfied without any confirmation, they may he, and their verdict may be an honest and just and true one.
Precedent	The directions of Judges given to juries in that respect are not directions in point of law which juries are bound to adopt, but observations respecting facts, which Judges are vary properly in the habit of giving, because, with respect to matters of fact, the Judge, as well as the counsel upon both aides, endeavour to assist the jury."
Precedent	The principle laid down in the above case was not always observed.
Precedent	Permission to examine an accomplice as a witness was sometimes refused on the ground that no corroborative evidence was forthcoming.
Precedent	"Where several prisoners were committed as principals, and several as receivers, but no corroboration could be given as to the receivers, against whom the evidence of the accomplice was required, <ORG> refused to permit one of the principals to become a witness [<ORG> (1833) vide <ORG>, Ed., XIII, p. 108].
Precedent	So in <ORG> (1842) vide <ORG> Ed ., XIII, p. 108 on a motion to admit an accomplice, <NAME>, J., said "I doubt whether I shall allow him to be a witness.
Precedent	If you want him for the purpose of identification, and there is no corroboration that will not do" In R. v. Salt (1843) vide <ORG>, Ed.
Precedent	XIII, p. 108 where there was no corroboration of an accomplice, <NAME>, J., refused to allow him to become a witness.
Precedent	And again, in Reg.
Precedent	v. Sparks (1858) 1 F. & F. 388 whore counsel for the prosecution applied for leave to call an accomplice who had pleaded guilty, <NAME>, J, refused to permit it until the other evidence had been given in order to sea whether it was sufficient to corroborate that of the accomplice.
Precedent	"(Roseoe's Criminal Evidence, 13th Edition, p. 108).
Precedent	These oases proceeded certainly on the footing that the accused should not be convicted on the evidence of an accomplice alone and that there was a legal presumption against its trustworthiness.
Precedent	In Reg.
Precedent	v. Farler (1837) 8 C. &.
Precedent	P. 106, <ORG> observed that the practice of requ iring confirmation of such testimony has obtained so much sanction from legal authority that it deserves all the reverance of law.
Precedent	The learned Judge, however, did not direct the jury to acquit the accused, He said "I would suggest to you that the circumstances are too slight to justify you in acting on the evidence."
Precedent	This was no more than an expression of his own opinion on the facts of the case which a Judge is always justified in giving.
Precedent	Lord <NAME> in Rex.
Precedent	v. <NAME> (1809) 2 Camp.
Precedent	131 treated the advice to be given by a Judge against acting on the testimony of an accomplice as resting in his discretion.
Precedent	In 1861 in Reg.
Argument	v. Boyes 1 B.
Argument	& S. 311 <NAME> and <NAME>, J., took the same view, <NAME>, J., observing, ' The application of that rule, however, is a matter for the discretion of the Judge by whom the accused is tried and hare he appears to have drawn the attention of She jury to the point.
Precedent	"The learned Judges approved of the ruling of <ORG> reserved in Reg.
Precedent	v. Stubbs 25 L.J.
Precedent	M.C.
Precedent	16 where the learned Judges held that the practice of requiring corroboration of an accomplice is not a rule of law.
Precedent	In Beg.
Precedent	v. Gallagher (1893) 15 Cox.
Precedent	C.C.
Precedent	291 at p. 318 the Judge's statement to the jury regarding the practice is spoken of as a recommendation to them.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> (1845) 1.
Precedent	Cox.
Precedent	C.C.
Precedent	206 the Judge refused to withdraw the case from the jury on the ground that there was no corroboration of the accomplice.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> (1835) 7 C. & P. 152 the Judge in giving directions on the application of the prosecution slid that the evidence in the case must be adduced though it was admitted that there would be no evidence forthcoming to corroborate the accomplice in the case.
Precedent	Further the rule regarding the necessity for corroboration was often relaxed in the case of misdemeanors -See Archbold's Criminal Pleading, 23rd Edition, page 391.
Precedent	On the other hand, <NAME>, JJ., in Beg.
Precedent	v. Jetlyman (1838) 8 C. & P. 604 and <NAME>, J., in <CITATION_190642790> (1829) 1 M. & M. 326 told the jury  that they ought to acquit unless they were convinced that there was sufficient corroboration.
Precedent	One rule alone may be regarded as established in the long run, that a Judge is bound to caution the jury against the danger of acting on the testimony of an accomplice without corroboration.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> (1908) 2 K.B.
Precedent	680 Lord <NAME>, C.J., while agreeing that there is no definite rule of law that a prisoner cannot be convicted on the uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice, said that in his opinion" it was of the highest importance that the jury should be cautioned against accepting the evidence of an accomplice without corroboration."
Precedent	There is nothing supporting a contrary view in In re <NAME> (1894) 2 Q.B., 415.
Precedent	In that case, where the question was whether a magistrate was right in passing an order for the surrender of the accused to <ORG> under the Extradition Act , on the ground that there was no proper corroboration of the evidence of an accomplice, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., held that the ab sence of corroboration was no ground for holding that the case was not to be laid before the jury.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., observed, "The magistrate has a discretion in each case as to whether the evidence is, or is not sufficient to justify a committal."
Precedent	Cases are not wanting however even in recent years in which Judges have regarded the presumption against accomplices as one of law.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., in 1895, 'withdrew from the jury one of the counts in an indictment upon which there was very clear and unshaken evidence by the accomplice but nothing else."
Precedent	And Baron <NAME> is stated to have followed a similar course in another ease.
Precedent	See ''<NAME> on Circumstantial Evidence," page 365, also "Roscoe and Granger on Criminal Evidence," p. 156.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> (1909) 73 J.P. 223, it was hold only that the jury should be cautioned.
Precedent	But in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1909)73 J.P. 269.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., is reported to have said that "the direction should be to acquit unless there was corroboration connecting the accused with the offence."
Precedent	And in Re x v. <NAME> (1909) 73 J.P. 369, Channel, J., is said to have expressed himself in similar terms.
Precedent	114.
Precedent	A review of the English cases shows the uncertainty of the law in that country as to the nature and extent of the presumption.
Precedent	The learned editors of ' Roscoe on Criminal Evidence," 13th Edition, observe, at page 110, "Thus the law remains in that anomalous state in which the bare existence of a principle is acknowledged, but which principle is constantly disapproved of and frequently violated.
Precedent	As the law now stands, it is universally agreed by all the authorities that if the accomplice were uncorroborated a Judge would be wrong who did not advise the jury not to convict, whereas <ORG> would be hound to pronounce an opinion that a Judge who did not advise them was right."
Precedent	The learned editors of "Russell on Crimea" 6th edition, vol.
Precedent	III, p, 645, point out that it is only by holding that the practice of requiring corroborative evidence must rest on the discretion of the Judge that it can  be reconciled with the doctrine that the legal conviction may take plane upon the unsupported evidence of an accomplice.
Precedent	This statement is scarcely in accordance with Bex v. Tate (1908) 2 K.B.
Precedent	680.
Precedent	115.
Precedent	It seems to me that having regard to the condition of the case law in England it would be safe to proceed to determine the law in this country by a consideration, mainly, if not solely, of the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	We start with the fact that the presumption that an accomplice is unworthy of credit unless he is corroborated in material particulars is one which the court may or may not make.
Precedent	It is impossible to hold that the court is in all cases hound to make the presumption without regard to the particular facts and circumstance of each case; for, in that case, the legislature would have said that the court "shall presume" the untrustworthiness of an accomplice.
Argument	If the case is tried by a jury the judge cannot tell them that they are bound to make (she presumption.
Argument	It would be his duty to i nform them that they are at liberty to make it or not.
Argument	Taking it that it is his further duty to draw their attention to the facts which would make it proper that the presumption should be made and that be is entitled to express his own opinion that in the particular case the presumption would be a proper one, it cannot be denied that be is equally entitled to say that, in his opinion, it would be proper not to make the presumption in any particular ease.
Argument	If the case is tried by the Judge himself without a jury, it would then be left to him whether in the circumstances of <NAME> case he would make the presumption or not.
Precedent	But he is of course bound to exercise his judicial discretion to presume or not to do so in a judicial and legal manner.
Precedent	"A presumption of fact is a rule of law that a fact otherwise doubtful may be inferred from a fact which is proved" (Lawson on the Law of Presumptive Evidence, page 639).
Precedent	On an appeal from his decision it would be open to the court of appeal to consider when 1;g was right or w rong in not making the presumption in the circumstances.
Precedent	If the question be whether there is any error of law in his judgment, the court is entitled to consider whether the rule embodied in Section 114 was present to his mind and whether <NAME> exercised his discretion after considering the materials on record.
RatioOfTheDecision	His judgment will be examined for the purpose of enabling <ORG> to decide whether the discretion was exercised in a legal manner.
RatioOfTheDecision	If he <NAME>s not made the presumption and <NAME>s given no reasons for not doing 90, it would be open to a Court of review or revision to arrive at the conclusion t<NAME>t the discretion <NAME>s not been exercised in a legal manner.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision of the question would depend on the consideration of his judgment as a whole.
Precedent	In a jury case it is the duty of the Judge in c<NAME>rging the jury to sum up the evidence for the prosecution and the defence and to lay down the law by which the jury are to be guided, Section 297 , Criminal Procedure Code .
Precedent	This will include the duty to draw attenti on to the presumptions mentioned in Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act and also to the circumstances in the particular case having a bearing on the application of the rule.
Precedent	Up to this point I think there is not much room for doubt.
Precedent	But can it further be laid down that it is the duty of a Judge deciding the facts to make the presumption that an uncorroborated accomplice is unworthy of credit unless there be special reasons which would justify the refusal to make it?
Precedent	On this point I am of opinion that there is room for the growth of judiciary law.
Precedent	Judges are entitled to lay down a rule that although the legislature has given the <ORG> the discretion to make a particular presumption or not, according to the circumstances, the proper course for the <ORG> to follow is to make the presumption unless there be special occasion for not doing so.
Precedent	This does not deprive the <ORG> of the right given by the legislature to exercise its discretion, Whether a rule should be laid down guiding and controlling the exercise o f the discretion must depend on the nature of the presumption of fact in question.
Precedent	If there be a course of decisions with respect to any of the nine presumptions mentioned in the section, it would be wise not to depart from what has been consistently laid down by the <ORG>.
Precedent	It must be recognised that the illustrations to the section embody presumptions which are regarded as of great value in English law and some of them are regarded as presumptions of law there.
Precedent	Thus illustration (a) is treated as a presumption of law in England.
Precedent	So also illustration (e).
Precedent	Illustration (i) relates to a case where the onus would be regarded as shifted in consequence of the fact referred to therein.
Precedent	Illustration (g) also embodies a presumption of much weight.
Precedent	Illustration (c) has been converted into a presumption of law in the Negotiable Instruments Act , With regard to illustration (b) where the accomplice has not already bean convicted of the offence in which he took part and is giving evidence in the hope of a pardon, his ev idence is of a particularly unworthy character.
Precedent	There may no doubt be circumstances in any particular case which would justify the <ORG> in not making the presumption.
Precedent	But I think it would be reasonable to hold that there must be some good reasons given for not making the presumption in such case.
Precedent	The same observation will hold good with regard to illustration (e) which refers to the presumption that judicial and official acts have been regularly performed.
Precedent	116.
Precedent	When we examine the case law on the point we find that though the rule of law embodied in Sections 114 and 133 of the Indian Evidence Act appear reasonably simple and clear, the sentiment against the testimony of accomplices has led to some extent to the importation of the indefinite practice of English Judges in charging juries and to a tendency on the part of some Judges to make the desirability of corroborative evidence in such oases a rule of law, notwithstanding the refusal of the legislature to treat it as such in the Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	In t he leading case of <NAME> (1866) 5 W.R. Cr.
Precedent	B., 80, <ORG> held that it was the duty of a Judge, in summing up to the jury, to make such observations as to the credit to be attached to particular witnesses as the circumstances of the case rendered necessary.
Precedent	<NAME>, C.J., observed, "That the omission to follow a practice which is universally adopted by the Judges in England would be a ground of appeal against a conviction upon a verdict of guilty and would be an error of law."
Precedent	The learned Judge could not be taken to have meant that the Judge should advise the jury not to convict on accomplice evidence, if his own opinion is that in the particular circumstances of the case it was trustworthy.
Precedent	In 4 M.H.C.B.
Precedent	Appendix, page vii, this <ORG> laid down the proper course in such cases to be to tell the jury or the assessors "that as a general rule of practice, it is considered unsafe to convict upon such evidence and to point out any circumstances in the particular case which in the opinion of  the Judge afford a sufficient reason for relying upon the evidence in that case."
Precedent	In Beg.
Precedent	v. Ramasami Padayaohi (1878) I.L.R.
Precedent	1 Mad.
Precedent	394, <NAME>, C.J., and <NAME>, J., held that "the court or jury is required by Section 114 to take into consideration certain facts with the view to ascertain the probability of the story told.... And the rule in this section is thus brought to coincide with the rule observed in England that though the tainted testimony of an accomplice should be carefully scanned and received with caution and may be treated as unworthy of credit, yet, if the jury in the one case or the court in the other credits the evidence, a conviction proceeding upon it is Dot illegal."
Precedent	It will be observed that all that is required according to the learned Judges is that the probability of the story should be ascertained and the evidence of the accomplice should be scanned and received with caution.
Precedent	In Queen-Empress v. Arumuga (1889) I.L.R.
Precedent	12 Mad.
Precedent	196 Collins, 0.
Precedent	J., and <NAME>, J., set aside  a conviction on the ground that "the Sessions Judge should have cautioned the jury not to accept an approver's evidence unless it was corroborated."
Precedent	This observation in my opinion went too far unless it was based on the facts of the particular ease.
Precedent	The learned Judges could hardly have meant that it was not equally the Judge's duty to tell them, if he considered it proper to do so, that in the circumstances of the case the accomplice's evidence was trustworthy without corroboration.
Precedent	<CITATION_1181242> (1902) I.L.R.
Precedent	25 Mad.
Precedent	143 reference is made to the English decisions laying down that the testimony of the approver ought to be corroborated in material particulars.
Precedent	It was held that such corroboration existed in that case.
Precedent	In Emperor v. <NAME> (1903) I.L.R.
Precedent	26 Mad.
Precedent	1 <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., stated with more caution that a Judge ought not to omit to caution the jury with respect to the credit to be attached to accomplices.
Precedent	<CITATION_514169> (1904) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Mad.
Precedent	271 Subraemania Aiyar, J., observes that the rul e laid down in Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act is only a precept of caution, He says, "To claim for it greater potency, in the face of Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act, would be to introduce an artificial scale of credit; and nothing can be more absurd 'to borrow from the language of LORD <NAME> in <NAME> v. <NAME> 2 A.
Precedent	& E. 540 than that there should be any rigid presumptions as to matters of fact where the only questions ought to be what evidence is admissible and what inferences may fairly be drawn from it" <NAME>, said "I am however unable to agree with <NAME>, J., that if the first witness was in law an accomplice it would be the duty of the Judge to direct the jury that there was not sufficient evidence before them upon which they would be justified in finding the accused guilty ' and with all respect I should say that this would he a misdirection.
Precedent	In Req.
Precedent	v. <NAME> (1861) 9 Cox C.C.
Precedent	32 COCKBUKN, G. J., adverting to counsel's argument that <NAME>, B., ought to have directed th e jury not to act upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice, protested against it being the duty of the Judge to direct the jury to acquit because the evidence of an accomplice is uncorroborated and added that the Judge ought not to have told the jury to acquit if the witness was uncorroborated.
Precedent	It may be that except under very special circumstances the settled course of practice is not to convict a prisoner upon the sole and uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice and if, in the opinion of the Judge there are no special circumstances which would induce him to give credit to the evidence of the accomplice and convict the prisoner on his sols uncorroborated testimony he may no doubt, under Sub-section 2 of Section 293 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, express such opinion to the jury and in that sense advise them to acquit the prisoner."
Precedent	117.
Precedent	The latest decision of this <ORG> seems to be <NAME> v. Emperor (1911) 1 M.W.N.
Precedent	397.
Precedent	I do not think that my learned brother <NAME> J., has laid down  in that case nay hard and fast rule that it is not open to a Judge in any case to act on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice.
Precedent	He no doubt points out the danger of doing so and refers to the practice on the part of Judges in general requiring corroborative evidence.
Precedent	<CITATION_461207> (1874} 21 W.R. Cr.
Precedent	R. 69 <NAME>, J., held that the omission to give the usual caution to the jury was a misdirection and that the Judge was wrong in the particular case in saying to the jury that it was not proper or necessary for him to ball them that the evidence of the accomplice was to be received with caution.
Precedent	The learned Judge said, "that it is the duty of the court which in any particular case has to deal with accomplice testimony, to consider whether this maxim applies to exclude that testimony or not; in other words, to consider whether the requisite corroboration is furnished by other evidence or facts proved in the case, though, at the same time, the court may rightly in exceptional eases, notwithstanding the  maxim, and in the absence of this corroboration, give credit to the accomplice's testimony against the accused, if it sees good reason for doing go upon grounds other than, so to speak, the personal corroboration."
Precedent	This pasaage seems to show that: the Judge must, in order to avoid making the presumption, find good reason for doing so.
Precedent	<CITATION_1583931> (1900) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Calc.
Precedent	144, it is stated that the practice of requiring corroboration is a rule of almost universal application, and in <CITATION_1484160> (1901) I.L.R.
Precedent	28 Calc.
Precedent	339 it is stated to be almost a part of the law itself.
Precedent	The question however in both those oases was whether certain witnesses were really in the position of accomplices.
Precedent	<CITATION_286162> (1903) I.L.R.
Precedent	29 Calc.
Precedent	782 <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., held that the jury should have bean told that it was not safe to convict on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice, though the Sessions Judge had charged <NAME> that corroboration was necessary.
Precedent	<CITATION_1033901> (1911) I.L.R.
Precedent	38 Calc.
Precedent	559 a t p.579 cannot be regarded as throwing any light on the question.
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME>, says that admittedly the testimony of accomplices required to be corroborated in material particulars and no question arose as to whether the court was bound to make the presumption mentioned in Section 114 , illustration (b).
Precedent	<CITATION_1146694> (1885) I.L.R.
Precedent	8 All.
Precedent	306, <NAME>, J., merely observed that it is a practice of Judges both in England and in India to guard their minds carefully against acting upon such evidence when uncorroborated and, when trying a case with a jury, to warn the jury that such course is unsafe, <CITATION_510764> (1817) I.L.R.
Precedent	9 All.
Precedent	628, <NAME>, C.J., points out tat p. 554) that a jury being bound to convict on the uncorroborated evidence of an approver if they believe it, & Judge cannot direct them to acquit the accused in the absence of corroborative evidence.
Precedent	He says, "A Judge would advise a jury that it would be unsafe to act upon, in other words, to believe, the uncorroborated evidence of an accom plice, as <NAME> would advise the jury not to act upon the evidence of any other witness whose evidence might, from any cause, be open to suspicion, but in either case he would <NAME>ve to tell the jury t<NAME>t if they believed the evidence they might legally convict the prisoner."
Precedent	I entirely agree with this statement of the law, with this addition, t<NAME>t, it is the duty of the <NAME>udge to draw the attention of the jury to any circumstances either in favour of or against the credibility of the accomplice.
Precedent	In Queen-Empress v. <NAME> and <NAME> (1890) I.L.R.
Precedent	14 Bom.
Precedent	115, <NAME>, <NAME>., observes, with respect to oases tried by a <NAME>udge himself.
Precedent	"But it must clearly appear to the court sitting in revision t<NAME>t the c<NAME>racter of the witnesses was present in his mind when the <NAME>udge or magistrate came to such a conclusion "T<NAME>t is t<NAME>t the evidence of the accomplice was trustworthy).
Precedent	"But, if t<NAME>t is so, there is no ground for interference of a revisional c<NAME>racter."
Precedent	<NAME>, <NAME>'s observations are not inconsistent with this.
Precedent	He observ es "These reasons for requiring independent corroboration, so strongly insisted upon by Sir <NAME>, are not expressly mentioned by the Magistrate."
Precedent	<NAME>, J., would seem to have gone further.
Precedent	He said "He had nothing before him but the corrupt; evidence of confessed accomplices.
Precedent	His omission to consider the necessity that such evidence should be corroborated by that of one or more other and untainted witnesses is, in ray opinion, an error by which the accused have undoubtedly been prejudiced."
Precedent	It is not quite clear, however, whether the learned Judge intended to lay down any general rule that corroboration was necessary in all oases.
Precedent	In Queen-Empress v. <NAME> <NAME> (1890) I.L.R.
Precedent	14 Bom.
Precedent	331, Birdwood, J., was of opinion that <ORG> could in revision consider whether there were good grounds to warrant the lower court in not making the presumption that an accomplice witness was untrustworthy.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., said "The rule in Section 114 and that in Section 133 are part of one subject, and both  are found in most of the great judgments mentioned in our judgments in Queen-Empress v. Maganlal (1890) I.L.R.
Precedent	14 Bom.
Precedent	115 and neither section is to be ignored in the exercise of judicial discretion The illustration (b) is, however, the rule, and when it is departed from, 1 think the Court should show, or that it should appear, that the circumstances justify the exceptional treatment of the case."
Precedent	No other case of importance has been brought to our notice at the arguments.
Precedent	The observations of <ORG> in Queen-Empress v. Maganlal (1890) I.L.R.
Precedent	14 Bom.
Precedent	115, and Queen-Empress v. Chagan Dayaram (1890) I.L.R.
Precedent	14 Bom.
Precedent	331 of <NAME>, in <CITATION_461207> (1874) 21 W.R. Cr.
Precedent	R. 69 and of <NAME> J., in <CITATION_514169> (1904) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Mad.
Precedent	271 are authorities for the position that it would be right to require that Judges should ordinarily presume the untrust worthiness of an accomplice.
Precedent	When a ease is tried without a jury the judgment should contain certain materials to show to a court of  appeal or revision that this presumption was borne in mind by the Judge and the reasons that weighed with him for not making the presumption.
Precedent	I would not put it, as suggested in the Advocate-General's certificate, that the presumption of untrust worthiness should be made in all cases and that a conviction, without independent corroboration, can be sustained only where the presumption is rebutted by special circumstances.
Precedent	I do not think that there is really anything in the judgment of the majority of <ORG> to show that the learned Judges really took a different view though they do not consider the question whether special reasons should be exhibited for not requiring corroboration.
RatioOfTheDecision	Their Lordships say that it should be borne in mind that the evidence of the approvers is Sainted evidence, scrutinized with the utmost care and accepted with the greatest caution and considered in the light of the circumstances in which it is given and the light of all other circumstances in the case of which evidence i s legally admissible, then, if it is found to be trustworthy, it must be acted on.
RatioOfTheDecision	As I have already pointed out, the certificate of the Advocate-General on the question does not raise any question of practical importance in the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Judges have in fact given plenty of reasons which in their opinion were sufficient for considering the evidence of the approvers in the case generally trustworthy.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG>, dealing, as a court of review, with the question whether there is any error of law in the view, taken by the majority, is not concerned to consider whether those reasons were, as a matter of fact sufficient to justify the acceptance of the approvers' evidence as generally true.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is entirely a question of fact and we have not, at this stage of the case, at any rate, to deal with it further.
RatioOfTheDecision	118.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> raised a further contention on the first point in the Advocate-General's certificate that the majority of <ORG> were wrong in their view as to what constitutes ' material particulars' in respect of which corroboration of an accomplice's testimony is required, But this question is not raised in the certificate of the Advocate-General.
RatioOfTheDecision	The certificate says that the opinion that the evidence of an accomplice need not be corroborated in material particulars requires to be further considered.
RatioOfTheDecision	It does not state that the opinion of the majority as to what are material particulars requires to be further considered.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> then claimed to argue this question apart from the certificate of the Advocate-General.
Argument	His argument is that once the Advocate-General certifies that the decision of the court on any question of law arising at the original trial is in his opinion wrong or that any question of law requires in his opinion to be further considered, the whole case is open before the court reviewing the judgment, Clause 26 of the Letters Patent provides that "on its being certified by the said Advocate-General that in his judgment there is an error in the decisi on of a point or points of law decided by the court of original criminal jurisdiction, or that a point or points of law which has or have been decided by the said court should be further considered, the said <ORG> shall have full power and authority to review the case or such part of it as may be necessary and finally determine such point or points of law, and thereupon to alter the sentence passed by the court of original jurisdiction and to pass such judgment and sentence as to the said <ORG>, shall seem right."
Argument	It is contended that clause gives power to the <ORG>, whenever a certificate has been granted by the Advocate-General, to review the case or any part of it that the court may seem fit to review and that practically the whole case becomes open when a certificate is grunted.
Argument	This will make the review practically an appeal, while clause' 25 provides that "No appeal shall lie from any sentence or order in any criminal trial of the <ORG> in its original criminal jurisdiction."
Argument	Mr. <NAME> <NAME> admits that this would be the result, with the difference that the court has a discretion to decide how much and what portion of the judgment it would review.
RatioOfTheDecision	But this is not the language of the clause.
RatioOfTheDecision	The statement in it is that the court shall have power and authority to review the case or such part of it as may be necessary," not as the court may think fit.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now what is the meaning of the expression 'necessary'?
RatioOfTheDecision	Necessary for what?
RatioOfTheDecision	Obviously, I think, for deciding the point or points of law reserved or certified as requiring consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	No other meaning can, in my opinion, be suggested.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is rendered clearer by what follows, "and finally determine such point or points of law."
RatioOfTheDecision	The clause clearly means that the court should finally determine the points of law and for that purpose shall have power to review the whole or any part of the case that may be necessary.
RatioOfTheDecision	Then the clause proceeds to state what the court is to do after determining the point or points of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has then power to alt er the sentence passed by the court of original jurisdiction and to pass such judgment and sentence as to the said <ORG> shall seem right."
RatioOfTheDecision	If the court confirms the decision passed at the trial on the point or points of law, then nothing further remains to be done, If, on the other hand, it reverses the decision on any point or points of law, then it has to consider what judgments it should pass.
RatioOfTheDecision	The power given to the court under Clause 26 is similar to the power given to <ORG> 11 & 12 Vict., Cap., 78, with an important modification.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was considered that according to that statute if the decision of the trying court; on a material point of law was reversed by <ORG> that court had no power to consider whether the judgment could be upheld, notwithstanding its opinion on the question of law, and was bound to quash the conviction.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clause 26 of the Letters Patent, on the other hand, empowers the court to pass such judgment as it shall deem right- a power similar to what is conferred on courts of appeal by Section 167 of the Indian Evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The court is entitled to consider whether, notwithstanding that it may reverse the opinion of the trying court on any question or questions of law, the conclusion of that court on the case as a whole should be disturbed, or what is the proper judgment to be passed in the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question of law might possibly affect; only the sentence to be passed on the accused and in such a case it would be sufficient for the court of review to alter the sentence passed by the court of original jurisdiction.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other cases it would be necessary to consider whether the remaining evidence is sufficient to justify the conviction.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> was not able to cite any precedent in support of his contention.
Precedent	On the other hand, the observations of <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ.
Precedent	in <CITATION_1813941> (1908) I.L.R.
Precedent	32 Bom.
Precedent	111 are against his contention.
Precedent	<NAME> referred to an observation in the judgment of this Court i n <CITATION_590091> (1902) I.L.R.
Precedent	25 Mad.
Precedent	61 (P.C.).
Precedent	That was also a case under Clause 26 of the Letters Patent.
Precedent	An objection to the admissibility of an approver's evidence was allowed.
Precedent	But the <ORG> contended that, notwithstanding the validity of the objection, the evidence was otherwise admissible.
Precedent	The question was, whether the Grown was entitled to raise that question.
Precedent	The point was one which arose as the result of the view taken by the court on a Question raised in the Advocate-General's certificate.
Precedent	Such a question would certainly come within the purview of the court's jurisdiction on review.
Precedent	The case is not similar to the present one.
Precedent	It was further urged that the clause empowering the court to review the case or such portion of it as might be necessary was referred to in certain decisions as empowering the court to consider what course should be pursued when it reverses the finding of the court of trial on a question of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	I do not feel pressed by this argument.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is really the latter clause empower ing the court to pass such judgment as might be necessary, that in my opinion entitles it to consider the merits of the case when the result of its opinion on a point raised in the certificate renders this course necessary.
RatioOfTheDecision	Assuming that it was stated in the decisions relied on that the court bad the right to review the case in support of the contention that it could examine the merits, I would understand such language as used in the broad sense of the term "review" and not as placing reliance on any power of review expressly conferred by the clause.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am of opinion that it is not open to the accused at this stage of the case to raise any question of law not included in the certificate of the Advocate-General.
RatioOfTheDecision	119.
RatioOfTheDecision	The second point.-The second point in the certificate of the Advocate-General is that the opinion of the majority of the Judges that the previous statement of an accomplice can legally amount to corroboration of the evidence given by him at the trial should he further considered.
RatioOfTheDecision	These previous st atements are of two kinds, (1) the statements made by the approvers, prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	6 and prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	12, to <NAME>, prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31, (2) the statements made to the Magistrate, Mr. <NAME>, and recorded by him under Section 164 , Code of Criminal Procedure.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears from the statements made by counsel on both sides that no objection was taken at the trial to the admission of the previous statements of the approvers, <NAME> and <NAME>, on the ground that they were not receivable at all as relevant under Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act for any purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	The objection raised at the trial on the score of relevancy appears to have been that the statements wore not admissible as furnishing corroboration of the accomplices in material particulars in the sense in which the expression is used in Section 114 , illustration (b).
RatioOfTheDecision	The certificate of the Advocate-General appears to be wider in terms and raises the question of the admissibility of the former statements  of the accomplices as corroborative of their testimony at the trial in any manner.
RatioOfTheDecision	120.
RatioOfTheDecision	From the judgment of the majority of <ORG> it appears to me to be clear that the former statements of the accomplices were admitted as corroboration within the meaning of Section 114 , illustration (b) of the Indian Evidence Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Judges say.
RatioOfTheDecision	"In addition to the oral testimony of independent witnesses and the documentary evidence in the case, which will be considered later, the <ORG> relies on certain facts as corroboration of the evidence of the informers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Among these are the facts that certain statements were made by the approvers, <NAME> and <NAME>, to <NAME>, prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31, an Inspector of Police attached to <ORG>, statements which were substantially in accordance with the evidence before this Court....
RatioOfTheDecision	It was contended that the evidence as to the making of these statements was not admissible, and that, if it was, it did not corr oborate the evidence of <NAME> given at the trial."
RatioOfTheDecision	The reference to the oral testimony of independent witness and the documentary evidence in the case is certainly made as corroborative evidence within the moaning of illustration (b) to Section 114 and I have no doubt that the learned Judges treated the previous statements of the approvers also as corroborative evidence according to that section.
RatioOfTheDecision	I cannot therefore agree with the contention of Mr. <NAME> that the judgment does not show that the learned Judges treated the previous statements in question as supplying corroboration within the meaning of Section 114 , illustration (6).
RatioOfTheDecision	Putting aside for the moment the question whether <ORG> was an authority legally competent to investigate the fact, Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act certainly enacts a general rule that the former statement of a witness may be proved in order to corroborate his testimony.
RatioOfTheDecision	No exception is expressly made of the testimony of a witness who is an accomplice.
RatioOfTheDecision	The qu estion is whether Section 157 should not be taken with reference to its scope to be qualified by illustration (b) to Section 114 .
RatioOfTheDecision	According to ordinary canons of interpretation, I think it must be taken to be so qualified, the rule in Section 157 being a general provision with regard to the corroboration of the testimony of a witness and illustration (b) to Section 114 being a special rule as to the testimony of an accomplice.
RatioOfTheDecision	If, therefore, that illustration means that an accomplice should be corroborated by independent evidence of the facts spoken to by an accomplice, it follows, in my opinion, that a previous statement of the accomplice, assuming it for the moment to be admissible in evidence at all under Section 157 (a question which I shall presently consider), cannot be admitted as corroboration of the accomplice within the meaning of illustration (b) to Section 114 .
RatioOfTheDecision	On this point it is proper to consider in what sense the expression "corroboration in material particulars" was understood prior to the  enactment of the Indian Evidence Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> does not deny that such an enquiry is proper.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 114 itself states that if three accomplices between whom there was no opportunity of previous concert corroborate each other, that would be a circumstance which would justify the conclusion that the accomplice is not unworthy of credit in the particular case.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the previous statement) of the same accomplice witnesses is not referred to as corroboration of the testimony given by him at the trial, though under the previous Evidence Act II of 1855 the general rule with regard to the admissibility of a previous statement of a witness to corroborate his testimony was the same as under the present Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no decided case which has treated the previous statement of an accomplice as affording corroboration of his testimony within the meaning of illustration (b) to Section 114 .
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, in Beg.
Precedent	v. Malapa bin Kapana (1874) 11 Bom.
Precedent	H.C.R., 196 and <CITATION_333658> (1884) I.L.R.
Precedent	10 Calc.
Precedent	970 the con trary view was held.
Precedent	Section 157 was considered in both the cases.
Precedent	In the former case, the learned Judges who decided it say that the previous statement of an accomplice "can scarcely be said to answer the purpose for which juries are advised by Judges to require the evidence of an accomplice to be confirmed.
Precedent	From the position in which he stands it is considered unsafe to act upon his evidence alone.
Precedent	121.
Precedent	Hence the rule requiring confirmation of it as to the prisoners by some independent, reliable evidence.
Precedent	But his statement, whether made at the trial or before the trial, and in whatever shape it cornea before the <ORG>, is still only the statement of an accomplice, and does not at all improve in value by a repetition.
Precedent	The force of any corroboration by means of previous statements must evidently depend upon the truth of the proposition that he who is consistent deserves to be believed.
Precedent	If that proposition be not universally true, what becomes of the virtue of previous consistent statements?
Precedent	One may persisten tly adhere to falsehood once uttered, if there is a motive for it."
Precedent	It may no doubt be said, with reference to the observation that the statement of an accomplice does not improve by repetition, that the previous abatement in addition to proving the consistency of the witness might be of value if it was made before any pardon was tendered to the accomplice as it might weaken the suspicion attached to his testimony as being given under the temptation created by the offer of a conditional pardon.
Precedent	But it can hardly be said that the infirmity attaching to his evidence is thereby satisfactorily removed.
Precedent	In the latter case, <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., observed, "The mere repetition of the same statement; of facts without contradiction or material discrepancy is, no doubt, recognised by Section 157 of the Evidence Act, as some corroboration of the truthfulness of that statement, but the Judge has lost sight of the fact that, from the position occupied by an approver witness, big evidence is necessarily regarded wit h very great suspicion as being tainted, and that although he may, on the main facts connected with the commission of the offence, be truthful and reliable, it is when he comes to implicate any particular person that his evidence should be accepted with the greatest caution."
Precedent	The learned Judges express their approval of the decision in <CITATION_459789> (1867) 8 W.R.
Precedent	Cr.R., 19 that (the corroborative testimony should be that of an independent witness or facts which show the connection of the accused with the commission of the offence with which be is charged.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. King-Emperor (1904) 1 A.L.J.
Precedent	110 it was held that the corroboration must be independent of the accomplice or of a co-confessing prisoner, But the question did not relate to the admissibility of previous statements of an accomplice as corroboration either in that ease or in some other cases where similar opinions wore expressed.
Precedent	In the judgment of <NAME>, in Vyasa Row v. King-Emperor (1911) 1 M.W.N.
Precedent	327 the previous statement is  stated to be not proper corroboration of an accomplice---366 page 332.
Precedent	According to English law, previous statements of a witness are not generally receivable in evidence for corroborating his testimony.
Precedent	But such statements seem to be admitted where a witness is charged with design to mispresent in consequence of some motive or interest or friendship, the previous statement being used in such a case to show that he made a similar statement before such motive existed; and also where the witness is charged with having recently fabricated the story.
Precedent	But the previous statement, it is stated, is admissible in these cases, not to prove the truth of the facts stated, but merely to show that the witness is consistent with himself.
Precedent	See The Queen v. Coll (1883) 24 L.R.
Precedent	Ir.
Precedent	522.
Precedent	Previous statements are also admissible on charges of rape and similar offences against females.
Precedent	The fact that the prosecutrix made a complaint very shortly after the outrage, together with the particulars of the statement, is admissible to con firm her testimony and disprove consent.
Precedent	In The <NAME> v. <NAME> (1896) 2 Q.B.
Precedent	167 <ORG> held that a previous statement is admitted in such a case, not as being evidence of the facts complained of, but as evidence of the consistency of the conduct of the prosecutrix with the story told by her in the witness-box and as negativing consent on her part.
Precedent	<NAME>, J., referring to the ruling of <NAME> in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1817) 9 Stark 241 said "He only ruled, and in our opinion he correctly ruled, that they were not evidence of the truth of her complaint or of the statements of fact on which it was based."
Precedent	See also <NAME> v. <NAME> (1905) 1 K.B.
Precedent	561.
Precedent	The admission in evidence of a previous statement is strictly limited to the class of oases mentioned above.
Precedent	It appears to be settled that it is not admissible in an action for assault by performing a surgical operation, <NAME> v. <ORG> 60 J.P. 740.
Precedent	It is remarkable that there is really not a single case where the previous statement  of an accomplice was admitted as corroborative to prove the consistency of the accomplice or for any other limited purpose or to prove that his story was not recently connected although an accomplice would be seldom called upon to give evidence at the trial without having made a previous statement about the facts.
Precedent	122.
Precedent	It was held by the Courts in England before the enactment of the Indian Evidence Act that the accomplice should be corroborated by independent evidence as to the person of the prisoner against when he speaks.
Precedent	See <NAME> v. <NAME> (1834) 6 C. & P. 389, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1884) 6 C. & P. 595 <NAME> v. <NAME> (1836) 7 C. & P. 272, Reg.
Precedent	v. Farler (1937) 8 C. & P. 106, The Queen v. <NAME> 25 L.J.M.C.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	And the corroboration of the evidence of one accomplice by that of another without the testimony of untainted witnesses was also regarded as insufficient in law, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1832) 5 C. & P. 326.
Precedent	See <ORG>, 23rd edition, page 391.
Precedent	It is perhaps doubtful whether  this last rule about the corroboration of an accomplice by other accomplices can be held to be applicable in India having regard to the explanation to illustration(b) to Section 114 already referred to above.
Precedent	But the evidence of another accomplice is still independent evidence although it is that of a tainted witness.
Precedent	It cannot be said that a previous statement of the same accomplice stands on the same footing.
Precedent	If admissible, it may possibly deserve considerable weight in particular cases, but the question whether it should be admitted must be settled by considerations applicable to the large majority of oases.
Precedent	In <NAME> Case (1866) 5 W.R.Cr.R.
Precedent	80, Sir <NAME> treated the law in this country on the question of corroboration as generally identical with the English law.
Precedent	It is hardly likely that the Indian Evidence Act intended to depart from the English law as to the nature of the corroborative evidence required.
Precedent	In The Queen v. <NAME> (1873) 19 W.R.Cr.R.
Precedent	16, decided immediately after the  passing of the Indian Evidence Act , <NAME> and <NAME>, JJ., held that the independent evidence of corroboration was necessary.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> placed much reliance on R. v. Ellsom (1911) 76 J.P., 38, where <NAME>, J., observed that the previous statement of one of the witnesses in the ease, if in accordance with his testimony at the trial, would bo strong corroboration of his evidence.
Precedent	The witness however was not an accomplice but an accessory after the fact.
Precedent	His evidence no doubt was regarded as tainted But the corroboration desirable of the testimony of all tainted witnesses cannot be placed on the same footing.
Precedent	123.
Precedent	<CITATION_514169> (1904) I.L.R.
Precedent	27 Mad.
Precedent	271, Subrahmania Aiyar, J., dealing with the evidence of a witness who assisted in the removal of the dead body from the place of murder to the pit in which it was buried, observed: "Bub this being all the complicity that can ho attributed bo him, it seems to me that that could not make his evidence against the accused that of an accomplice for though the w itness might be indictable under Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code for the conealment of the body, yet such offence on the witness's part being one perfectly independent of the murder, the witness could not rightly be held to be either a guilty associate with the accused in the crime of murder or liable to be indicted with him jointly."
Precedent	The learned Judge refers to the observations of Baron <NAME> in <ORG> (1861) 9 Cox C.C.
Precedent	32, where that learned Judge distinguishes between the evidence of accessories properly so called and that of other witnesses whose evidence might also be regarded as tainted.
Precedent	<NAME>, J, concurred in the observations of <NAME>, J.
Precedent	He observed that there was no authority whatever in English law which warrants the extension of the maxim that the testimony of an accomplice should be corroborated in material particulars to witnesses who are not accomplices in the proper sense of the word.
Precedent	He said: "I do nob think it will be in furtherance of justice to regard anot her class of witnesses as quasi accomplices and to extend the maxim to them."
Precedent	124.
Precedent	I cannot therefore regard R. v. Ellsom (1911) 76 J.P. 38, as authority for the position that the previous statement of an accomplice would be regarded in England as evidence corroborative of his testimony in material particulars.
Precedent	On the other hand, in R. v. Dimes (1911) 76 J.P. 47, where the evidence of corroboration of an accomplice who had made a previous statement was referred to, no reference was made by the same learned Judge, <NAME>, J., to his previous statement as furnishing eorroboration of his evidence at the trial.
Precedent	125.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> contends that the question "what is corroboratioa in material particulars" is entirely a question of fact and must depend on the circumstances of each case.
Precedent	This proposition is undoubtedly in one sense quite true, but requires explanation.
Precedent	A question may be one of fact, but there may be a rule that a certain class of evidence is required to prove it, or that a certain class of evidence i s not admissible to prove it.
Precedent	Or again some particular kind of evidence, though admissible, might be regarded as legally insufficient.
Precedent	The evidence of a co-aeoomplice belongs to the last class.
Precedent	A previous statement of the same accomplice would belong to the second class.
Precedent	The necessity of corroboration connecting the accused with the offence belongs to the first class.
Precedent	Subject to these rules of law with regard to evidence, the question whether the evidence of an accomplice has bean properly corroborated is no doubt one of fact.
Precedent	The cases cited by Mr. <NAME> do not in my opinion substantiate hie contention that there are no legal rules ah all governing the question of corroboration of an accomplice.
Precedent	In re <NAME> (1894) 2 Q.B.
Precedent	415 merely laid down that the question whether there was sufficient corroboration to prove a prima facie case justifying the extradition of the accused was one of fact for the ' magistrate.
Precedent	There was no question raised as to the kind of evidence legally necessary for corroboration.
Precedent	The Co <ORG> found that there was a good deal of corroborative evidence adduced by the prosecution.
Precedent	Reg.
Precedent	v. Boyes (1861) 9 <NAME>.
Precedent	C.C.
Precedent	32, and Beg.
Precedent	v. Gallagher (1885) 15 <NAME>.
Precedent	C.C.
Precedent	291, are only authorities for the position that a conviction without corroborative evidence is nob illegal, Rex v. Tate (1908) 2 K.B.
RatioOfTheDecision	680 has no bearing on the question what kind of corroboration is legally required under the law, The only question as to the nature of the evidence necessary that we have to decide is whether independent evidence is not required.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is therefore unnecessary to discuss the question what other rules of law are applicable in determining whether there is proper corroborative evidence in any particular case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 114 , illustration (b), seems to a large extent to have been based on the views propounded by Sir <NAME> in <NAME> Case,.
RatioOfTheDecision	Subject to the possible exception with respect to the evidence of ca-accomplices that learned Judge accepted the English law as applicable to India and I think the Ind ian Evidence Act also did the same.
Precedent	126.
Precedent	Mention roust perhaps be made of the case of: the Queen-Empress v. <NAME> and <NAME> (1891) 1M.L.J.
Precedent	397, in which an application was made to <ORG> for leave to appeal against the conviction of the accused, a Subordinate Judge, on the charge of abetment of bribery ( Section 161 of the Indian Penal Code).
Precedent	The accused died before the application was disposed of.
Precedent	At the first hearing of the petition, there was some discussion as to the nature of the corroboration required of the evidence of an accomplice.
Precedent	Sir <NAME> made an observation that the question was not one of pare law.
Precedent	The question however was not further discussed, as Mr. <NAME> then urged that there was no legal evidence of the bribery itself except the testimony of the accomplice.
Precedent	I do not think that the observation of Sir <NAME> can be regarded as indicating that that learned Judge was of opinion that the question whether any class of evidence was admissible as corroboration w ould always be one of fact.
Precedent	127.
Precedent	I am of opinion therefore that the previous statement of an accomplice cannot legally amount to corroboration within the meaning of illustration (b) to Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question whether it is admissible at all as corroborative evidence under Section 157 for any other purpose is not free from doubt.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is possible to hold that it is admissible for proving his consistency and as disproving a suggestion that it was recently concocted by him.
RatioOfTheDecision	But I am inclined to think that it would be dangerous to admit it even for this limited purpose of proving his consistency.
RatioOfTheDecision	To do so would lead to the danger of its being relied on to prove the truth of the evidence also.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is likely to defeat the object of the rule requiring independent evidence of oorrobo-ration.
RatioOfTheDecision	The safer rule in my opinion would be to hold that Section 114 , illustration (6), requires the rejection of the previous statement altogether.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is however not neoessary to decide this point here.
RatioOfTheDecision	I  am clear that at any rate it cannot be relied on as corroborative evidence of the truth of the statements made by him at the trial.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am of opinion thai; the majority of <ORG> committed an error of law in admitting the statements of the approver witnesses to prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 under Section 161 , Criminal Procedure Code , and to Mr. <NAME> under Section 16i , Criminal Procedure Code , as corroboration within the meaning of illustration (6) to Section 114 of (she Indian Evidence Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	128.
RatioOfTheDecision	The third point,-The third point raised in the certificate of the Advocata-General is whether the previous statements of pro- secution witness No.
Argument	6 and prosecution witness No.
Argument	12 to prosecution witness No.
Argument	31 were made to an authority legally competent to investigate the facts within the meaning of Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act, i.e., whether <NAME>, prosecution witness No.
Argument	31, was legally competent to investigate the facts of which evidence was given at the trial by prosecution witne ss No.
Argument	6 and prosecution witness No.
Argument	12, that is, the existence of a conspiracy between the accused in the case and others within the moaning of Section 121-A of the Indian Penal Code.
Argument	This objection, it is stated, was nod specifically taken on behalf of the accused while <NAME> was being examined as a witness by the prosecution but only at the time of the arguments.
Argument	Mr, <NAME> asks us on this ground bo refuse to deal with the objection, bub ha admits that no objection was raised to the consideration of the point by <ORG> when it was raised by the accused, It was for <ORG> to consider whether the objection should be entertained at a later stage of the case or not.
Precedent	The learned Judges allowed it to be raised and dealt with in their judgments.
Precedent	We cannot hold that the accused are not entitled to have the question decided.
Precedent	Prosecution wit-nesH No.
Precedent	31 was as a matter of fact cross-examined by the accused at considerable length with a view bo show that he had do authority to inves tigate the facts in question.
RatioOfTheDecision	At the same time the evidence on the record relating to the question is meagre and the facts have nob been placed beyond dispute so as to enable us to deal with the point satisfactorily.
RatioOfTheDecision	The prosscution was bound to prove the facts necessary to show that <NAME> testimony as bo the previous statements made to him by prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	6 and prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	12 would come within the purview of Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The section requires that the previous statements should have been made "before any authority legally competent to investigate the fact."
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression "investigate" is not defined in the Indian Evidence Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	The ordinary meaning of the word is to "enquire into."
RatioOfTheDecision	It is defined in the present Criminal Procedure Code : and chapter 14 of the Code is beaded "information to the police and their powers to investigate."
Precedent	The corresponding chapter in the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861 (Act XXV) was headed "Preliminary enquiry by the  police."
Precedent	The investigation referred to in Section 157 of the Indian Evidence Act is not however confined to investigation in criminal cases under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code .
Precedent	The prosecution may he justified in contending thai; the word should not be interpreted in the technical sense that it bears in the Criminal Procedure Code .
Precedent	Understanding if; in the broad sense of "making enquiry into," the section requires that the statement should have been made before an authority legally competent to inquire into the fact.
Precedent	Legally competent" must, I think, mean, "having power under some law, statutory or otherwise."
Precedent	The power need not be derived from an express provision of the law, as stated by the majority of <ORG>, if by that expression be meant ' some definite statutory enactment, "but it must be shown that there is power under some law or other to investigate.
Precedent	The words "authority" and "competent" support this view.
Argument	The prosecution had therefore to prove that prosecution witness N o.
Argument	31 was empowered by some law to enquire into too conspiracy.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> has tried to show this in two ways.
Argument	He relies first on Section 21 of the Police Act, XXIV of 1859, which provides as follows: "Every police officer shall, for all purposes in this Act, be considered to be always on duty and shall have the powers of a police officer in every part of the general police district.
RatioOfTheDecision	It shall be his duty to use his best endeavours to prevent all crimes, offences and public nuisances; to preserve the peace; to apprehend disorderly and suspicious characters; to detect and bring offenders to justice, etc.," Reliance is placed on the fact that it is the duty of a police officer to detect and bring offenders to justice."
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression '' general police district," would embrace, under the definition given in the Act, the whole <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The section, it is coniended invests every police officer with the powers of a Police officer in every part of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	These powers are defined in Sections 22 to 43 of th e Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	But these sections were repealed by Act XVII of 1862; and the powers of a police officer are now regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code .
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act therefore cannot be relied on to show that a police officer has any specific powers.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it is contended that as Section 21 is still in force which makes it the duty of a police officer 'to delect and bring offenders to justice ' he must be taken to have all powers necessary for the purpose and therefore to investigate offences, and that every police officer his these powers throughout the Presidency.
RatioOfTheDecision	I am entirely unable to accept this argument; as sound.
RatioOfTheDecision	A law making it a person's duty to use his best endeavours "to detect and bring offenders bo justice" would nob by itself give him any power which he could exercise over other persona.
RatioOfTheDecision	The "endeavours" muss be made by biro by means of power given to him by the law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some endeavours to detect and bring offenders to justice might no doubt be made by every citizen.
RatioOfTheDecision	If a police officer wishes to do anything mo re requiring the exercise of power over individuals, he must get the authority to do so from some law giving him the power.
RatioOfTheDecision	Act XXIV of 1859 accordingly did confer various powers on police officers, but those sections have been repealed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The result is that they must now discharge their duties under the powers given to them by the Criminal Procedure Code or by some other law.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is quite impossible to hold that the mere imposition of duties of a comprehensive nature would authorise a person on whom they are imposed to restrain the rights and liberties of individuals or to exercise any specifie powers over them.
RatioOfTheDecision	The case would be different where a statute commands a person to do a particular act, as such a command would be sufficient authority for him to do it even though it may affect other persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Judges who formed the majority of <ORG> do not rest their judgment on Section 21 of the Police Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	I must hold that prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 was not empowered by that section to investiga te the fact in question in <NAME> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	129.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> then argues that apart from Section 21 of Act XXIV of 1859, prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 had authority to investigate.
RatioOfTheDecision	The witness was an Inspector of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is urged that in that capacity he was competent to make the investigation.
RatioOfTheDecision	This argument is put in two ways.
RatioOfTheDecision	An officer in charge of a police station has the power to investigate cognizable cases which a court having jurisdiction over the local area within the limits of such station would have power to inquire into or try; and Section 551 of the Code of Criminal Procedure gives the power of investigation to police officers superior in rank to an officer in charge of a police station in cases throughout the local area to which they have been appointed.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is contended that prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 obtained his competency under Section 551 .
RatioOfTheDecision	Very little information has been placed before the court on this point.
RulingByLowerCourt	It would appear from G. O.
RulingByLowerCourt	No.
RulingByLowerCourt	913, Judicial, dated 2nd  July 1908, that the officers of <ORG> are placed under the control of the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is stated that the Deputy Inspector-General of Police "should have free discretion in sending his agents" (i.e., <ORG> officers) when and where he chooses "huh that he should, except in the case of following up some special crime, promptly inform the District Magistrate and <NAME> of the enquiries he is making in the district and should keep them fully informed of fine progress of his investigation."
RulingByLowerCourt	It is contended that having regard to this provision in the General Order, whenever she Deputy Inspector-General of <ORG> sends out any of his agents to any local area, such an agent, if superior in rank to an officer in charge of police station, is competent to investigate crimes within that area.
RulingByLowerCourt	The functions of <ORG> epartment are described in the Government Order to be "generally speaking, to watch wide-spread and dangerous movements, to collect and disseminate information regarding organised crimes and gangs and to assist in the investigation of crimes which are of such a special nature that the local officers are unable to deal with them adequately without help."
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as investigation of crimes is concerned, their function is stated to be to assist in the investigation in oases whore the local officers require help.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not stilted that they are themselves to be investigating officers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Probably the object was to maintain the responsibilities and powers of the local officers as stalled in paragraph 3 of the Government Order and to make the <ORG> officers merely their assistants.
RatioOfTheDecision	The reference to enquiries and investigations of the <ORG> officers in paragraph 3 cannot therefore bo assumed to import that they are themselves to be investigating officers.
RatioOfTheDecision	At any ra te, a more reference to investigations to be made by them can at bast show only that the Government Order contemplates the possibility of the investigations being made by them and cannot dispense with proof of the fact that any particular officer was appointed to a certain local area, within the meaning of Section 551 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
RatioOfTheDecision	The act of the Deputy Inspector-General of <ORG> in sending out an officer superior in rank to a station-house officer to a certain district or place cannot be regarded as tantamount to -an appointment of that officer to a definite local area.
RatioOfTheDecision	No evidence his been adduced in this case that prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 was appointed to any local area by competent authority within the meaning of Section 551 .
RatioOfTheDecision	The majority of <ORG> observe that "as a member of the provincial <ORG> his (i.e., prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31(a) local area is the Presidency of Madras."
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned Judges go on to say that  the absence (if it be a fact) of a formal order of appointment is immaterial.
RatioOfTheDecision	With all deference I am unable to accept this view.
RatioOfTheDecision	It assumes that all officers of <ORG> are appointed to the whole <ORG> within the meaning of Section 551 simply because they are members of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It assumes that every officer superior in rank to an officer in charge of a police station must be deemed as appointed to some certain local area.
RatioOfTheDecision	I cannot but regard this assumption as unfounded.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contention on behalf of the accused is that <ORG> officers are really a number of men at the disposal of the police department available for being deputed to do special duties.
RatioOfTheDecision	This view is quite as likely as that accepted by the learned Judges.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was for the prosecution to show that prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 was competent to investigate and I am constrained to hold that it failed to do so, Prosecution witness No 31, when examined as a wit ness, did not state that he was appointed to any local area.
RatioOfTheDecision	He merely said that he was ordered to search the houses of prosecution witnesses Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	6 and 12.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> says he inferred from that fact that he had powers of investigation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Surely his inference was entirely unwarranted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME>, his superior officer, also did not say that he was appointed to any local area (under Section 551 ).
RatioOfTheDecision	The majority of <ORG> observe that prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 was sent to Tuticorin for the specific purpose of making certain searches.
Precedent	Search parties were sent out and prosecution witness No.
Precedent	31 belonged to one of the parties.
Precedent	From this specific evidence, I find it impossible to draw the inference that the party and all the members of it were appointed as investigating officers, assuming that an appointment to investigate a specific crime could be made by the Inspector-General of Police or by the Deputy Inspector-General.
Precedent	130.
Precedent	There is again another difficulty which the prosecution has to overcome.
Precedent	The facts depo sed bo by prosecution witnesses Nos.
Precedent	6 and 12 at the trial related to the existence of a conspiracy under Section 121-A of the Indian Penal Code: an offence under that section is not a cognisable one and a police officer has no power under Sections 157 and 551 , Criminal Procedure Code , to investigate such an offence without the orders of a magistrate in that behalf.
Precedent	See Section 155 The search parties were sent out to investigate the offence of the murder of Mr. <NAME>, Collector of Tinnevelly.
Precedent	This would not, it is contended, empower any one to investigate a different offence, a non-cognisable one, without the magistrate's order.
Argument	It is admitted that in this case there was no such order of a magistrate But taking it that prosecution witness No.
Argument	31 had no power under the Criminal Procedure Code to iuvestigate the offence of conspiracy under Section 121-A of the Indian Penal Code, the question arises, whether, if he had authority to investigate the murder of Mr. <NAME>, he had not power to investigate facia which  might have a connection with the murder; nob as disclosing another non-cognisable offence, but as facts which might have a possible bearing on the murder.
RatioOfTheDecision	I think it is possible bo hold that he had such power.
RatioOfTheDecision	But as I have held that the proseoution failed bo show that prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 had legal power to investigate any facts, this objection to the admissibility of the statements of prosecution witnesses Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	6 and 12 must be upheld, and I abstain from deciding the question whether the absence of a magisterial order is an insuperable objection.
Precedent	have considered this objection to the reception of the former statements of prosecution witnesses Nos.
Precedent	6 and 12 anxiously on the ground that prosecution witness No.
Precedent	31 was not an authority competent bo investigate the facts, and I am obliged to come to the conclusion that the objection must be upheld.
Precedent	It is possible that all the evidence available on the point was nob adduced, bub the objection having been allowed to be entertained by <ORG>, a dec ision has bo bo arrived at on the evidence on record.
Precedent	131.
Precedent	The, fourth point.- The fourth point raised by the Advocate-General is whether the statements made by prosecution witnesses Nos.
Argument	6 and 12 to <NAME>, prosecution witness No.
Argument	31, were not rendered inadmissible in evidence by reason of the provisions of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act.
Argument	It is of coarse conceded for the prosecution that in those abatements prosecution witnesses Nos.
Argument	6 and 12 admitted they themselves were guilty of the offence under Section 121 A of the Indian Penal Code charged against the accused in the ease.
Argument	The question is whether they are inadmissible against the accused on the ground that they are confessions made to a <ORG> officer, prosecution witness No.
Argument	31, The finding of the majority of <ORG> is that Section 25 makes a confession to a <ORG> officer inadmissible only against the person making it, and that the statements are therefore ad-miasible against the accused under Section 157 .
Argument	The learned <NAME> dges are of opinion that the mischief aimed at is the same in Section 26 relating to a confession made by a person in police custody as in Section 25 and as Section 26 makes the confession under that section inadmissible only against the person making it, the expression in Section 25 "against a person accused of any offence" must also be held to "mean against the person making the confession."
Precedent	The argument for the prosecution at the hearing before us is briefly as follows.
Precedent	Sections 24 to 27 must be taken to lay down rules of admissibility only with regard to a confession made by a person charged with an offence at the trial.
Precedent	One reason for so holding is stated to be that a confession is generally admissible only against the person making it though the legislature has made an exception by making it admissible also against a person who is being tried jointly with such person when the confession has been already put in evidence against the maker.
Precedent	The soundness of this latter proposition is unquestioned.
Precedent	[A confe ssion could be used only against the accused in England- Bee Taylor on ' Evidence.'
Precedent	X edition, Section 904 , Phipsen on 'Evidence,' page 246, IV edition.
Precedent	That was also the law in this countly until the Indian Evidence Act of 1872 was passed.]
Precedent	132.
Precedent	But what inference follows from this proposition?
Precedent	The accused in this case were not tried jointly with prosecution witnesses Nos.
Precedent	6 and 12.
Precedent	Therefore the confessions of the latter should not be admissible against them.
Precedent	The reason given for the argument seems to me effectually to destroy the argument.
Precedent	It comes to this: Because a confession is admissible only against the person making it, or one who is jointly tried with him, therefore, under Section 25 , the confessions of prosecution witnesses.
Precedent	Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	6 and 12 wore admissible against the accused who were not jointly tried with them-an apparently absurd conclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it is contended that there is no such absurdity because apart from this reason the word confession has a well understood meaning, viz., an admission of  guilt by a party to the criminal proceeding before the court, and therefore the previous statements of proaeoution witnesses Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	6 and 12 who were not such parties were not confessions at all.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is not the reason given by <ORG> for admitting the abatements, The learned Judges treat them as admissions but say that Section 25 does not prevent their reception as evidence against the accused.
RatioOfTheDecision	This argument does not: appear to have been urged before the learned Judges so far as their judgments show.
RatioOfTheDecision	I shall presently examine this argument as to the meaning of the word, but it is well to realise the effect of it.
Precedent	It amounts to this: An admission of guilt to a <ORG> officer by a party to the proceeding cannot be proved against another accused person unless both are being jointly tried; but an admission of guilt by one who is not party to the proceeding may be proved against such a person.
Precedent	Prima facie this contravenes the principle that an admission of guilt is admissible only against the person mak ing it or one tried for an offence jointly with him.
Precedent	I cannot help thinking that the argument at the back of this contention, though it was not put forward directly in so many words, is that Sections 24 to 26 make an admission of guild inadmissible only as substantive evidence.
Precedent	But can it be held that it may be used for corroborating the testimony of a witness as a previous statement made by him?
Precedent	I am clearly of opinion that it cannot, In the first place, the language of the section is too clear to admit of such interpretation, It says (as also does Section 26 ) that the confession cannot be proved.
Precedent	If it cannot be proved, how can it be admitted in evidence for any purposes?
Precedent	Secondly, when it is intended that anything not admissible under one section of the Act is not to be excluded if it to be relevant under some other section, the Act has expressly taken care to say so.
Precedent	Thus Section 21 while enacting that an admission cannot be proved by, or on behalf of, the person making it, states in exception (3) that i t may be proved "if it is relevant otherwise than as an admission."
Precedent	Section 43 provides that "Judgments, orders or decrees, other than those mentioned in sections 40 , 41 and 42 are irrelevant unless the existence of such judgment, order or decree, is a fact in issue, or is relevant under some other provision of this Act."
Precedent	Similarly Section 8 , explanation I, says that a abatement of a party to a proceeding not admissible under that section "is not to affect the relevancy, of statsments under any other section of the Act."
Precedent	But Section 25 does nob say that an admission of guilt not admissible under that section may be admitted under any other section.
Precedent	Thirdly, the reason why a confession made to a police officer should not be admissible is to my mind equally applicable whether it is to be used as substantive evidence or for the purpose of corroboration.
Precedent	133.
Precedent	I must now examine the main argument for the prosecution that the word confession means an admission of guilt by a party to the proceeding before the Cou rt.
Precedent	134.
Precedent	In Section 148 of the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861 which contained the rule of evidence afterwards embodied in the Indian Evidence Act of 1872, the provisions were exactly the same as in Section 25 except that the phrase "or admission of guilt" was used after the word "confession."
Precedent	The omission of the phrase was, I think, due to its being considered unnecessary as it merely conveyed the well known meaning of the word "confession" and not to any change of intention on the part of the legislature as to the sense in which the word should be understood.
Precedent	Any such change would have been clearly indicated by means of a definition.
Precedent	The section certainly did not show that an "admission of guilt" to constitute a confession, should be by a party to the proceeding before <ORG>.
Precedent	The Century Dictionary abates that at Common Law "a confession "means" an acknowledgment of guilt."
Precedent	The same explanation is given in "Field on Evidence," sea page 83.
Precedent	In Bouvier's Law Dictionary, the following explanation is given: (1 ) "the voluntary declaration made by a person who has committed1 a crime or misdemeanour to another, of the agency or participation which he had in the same; (2) an admission or acknowledgment by a person, when arraigned for an offence, that he committed the crime with which he is charged."
Precedent	It will be observed that an extrajudicial confession does not connote according to this definition that the statement was made by a party to the trial before the <ORG>.
Precedent	Acoording to American Cyclopaedia of Law and Procedure, volume VIII, a confession in criminal law is "the voluntary declaration by a person, who has committed a crime or misdemeanour to another, of the agency or participation he had in the same; an acknowledgment of guilt; the acknowledgment of a crime or fraud."
Precedent	No doubt a confession is used in evidence only against a person charged with a crime in the case before the <ORG> and only against the person making it or a co-accused, but this does not justify the view that the word confession itself means an an  mission of guilt by such a person.
Precedent	<CITATION_519602> (1885) I.L.R.
Precedent	7 All.
Precedent	646, where the question was whether an inculpatory admission which falls short of an admission of guilt would amount to a confession, <ORG> was cited where that learned author defines a confession as "an admission made at any time by a person charged with a crime stating or suggesting the inference that he committed that crime."
Precedent	<NAME>, J., was asked, on the authority of that definition, to hold that an admission need not amount to a complete admission of guilt.
Precedent	While holding that there was nothing in the definition against his view that an admission which does amount to an acknowledgment of the commission of a crime is not a confession, the learned Judge deprecated the use of a definition adopted for the purpose of an intended Code in England as a guidance in construing the Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	The definition is relied on by Mr. <NAME> to show that an admission to be a confession, must be a statement "by a per son charged with a crime."
Precedent	I do not think that' the learned author means by that; expression "charged in the proceeding before the <ORG>" but "charged with a crime" (that is) "accused of a crime"" at the time of the admission."
Precedent	But assuming that he used the expression in the former sense, I agree with <NAME>, J., that the autihor's definition is of little use in construing the Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	Our attention was drawn to <NAME>, J.
Precedent	's citation of <NAME>'s definition in <CITATION_1474388> (1884) I.L.R.
Precedent	6 All.
Precedent	609 at p. 539, but the definition is referred to only for the purpose of considering the question whether a confession should be a complete admission of guilt or not.
Precedent	135.
Precedent	I cannot bub think that if a confession was intended to refer only to an admission made by a party to the proceeding before the <ORG>, the legislature would have said so.
Precedent	Moreover, there would be much redundancy in the language of Sections 24 and 25 if we adopt the meaning contended for by the prosecution.
Precedent	The reference in Secti on 25 "to a person accused of an offance" would be unnecessary as the word confssion, by itself imports, according to the contention, a statement by the accused before the Court.
Precedent	Similarly the expression in a Criminal proceeding" would be unnecessary in Section 24 .
Precedent	136.
Precedent	Apart from the fact that the Act does nob say that a confession is a statement by a party to the final before the Court, I think it makes it clear that it need not be made by such a person.
Precedent	Section 24 renders irrelevant in certain oases "a confession made by an accused person" Section 25 makes certain confessions inadmissible against a person accused of any offence.
Precedent	The person accused of an offence in Section 25 refers of course to a party Co the proceeding before the Court against whom the con-feasion is sought to be used.
Precedent	But what is the meaning of the expression "made by an accused person" in Section 24 ?
Precedent	Does it mean made by a person accused in the proceeding before the Court?
Precedent	I think not.
Precedent	The meaning is in my opinion that the person mus t be "an accused person" at the time of the confession.
Precedent	This was the meaning put on the expression in <CITATION_338625> 4 (1899) C.W.N.
Precedent	129 where the <ORG> held that a person making an admission may be "an accused person" though be might not be under arrest at the time.
Precedent	No doubt the accused person making the admission would also ordinarily be a party to the proceeding before the <ORG>; bub it cannot be inferred from that fact that the accused person making the confession should be the accused in the proceeding before the <ORG>.
Precedent	What Section 24 therefore requires is that the admission should be by a person then accused of a crime nob that he should be the accused before the <ORG>.
Precedent	Moreover Che words "by an accused person" would be a mere surplusage, if a confession is always a statement made by the accused in the case.
Precedent	The expression ' made by an accused person" means by one <NAME> an accused person just as "proving against a person accused of an offence" means "proving against one who is then an accused person. "
Precedent	It must be remembered that confessions coming under Sections 25 and 26 , in order to be excluded, need nob have been made by an accused person at all as those words are omitted in the sections.
Precedent	It was regarded apparently that it was necessary to shut out all admission of guilt made to a <ORG> officer whether the person making it was then accused of an offence or not.
Precedent	I am therefore of opinion that the word confession does not import that the admission of guilt should be by a party to the criminal proceeding before the Court.
Precedent	137.
Precedent	Thus far I have dealt with the arguments on behalf of the prosecution.
Precedent	An examination of the sections leaves no doubt in my mind that an admission of guilt made to a <ORG> officer by any person cannot be proved as against any person aooused of any offence whether he be the person who made the admission or not.
Precedent	Under Section 24 a statement which appears to the Court bo have bean caused by an inducement, threat or promise, is inadmissible both against the person making it and agai nst others such as his co-accused.
Precedent	A confession which was not voluntary within the meaning of Section 24 cannot be used against a co-accused while it is inadmissible against the person making it.
Precedent	This is really not denied, but it is argued by Mr. <NAME> that the exclusion is not directed by the words of Section 24 , but by the provisions of Section 30 .
Precedent	He contends that the language "when a confession is proved" in that section means "when it is admitted in evidence."
Precedent	I do not think so.
Precedent	That is not the ordinary meaning of "proved."
Precedent	A statement is proved when it is shown to the satisfaction of the <ORG> that it was made.
Precedent	If the statement is in writing, the writing is proved in the manner in which the execution and contents of documents are required to be proved by the subsequent; sections of the Act.
Precedent	Such proof does not include showing that the statement was not made owing to any throat of promise or inducement.
Precedent	It could not mean this, because the onus of proving this would not be on the prosecution but on the  accused against whom it is sought to be used.
Precedent	Sections 24 and 30 show that the Act makes a clear distinction between the proof of a confession and its relevancy.
Precedent	See also the definition of the word "proved" in Section 4 .
RatioOfTheDecision	I must hold that so far as Section 30 goes, when a confession is proved, it is admissible under that section against a co-accused also.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is by means of Section 24 that a confession which is an improper one is excluded both against the person making it and against others.
RatioOfTheDecision	If this conclusion is right, it affords a strong argument in favour of holding that under Section 25 also the confession is inadmissible against any accused person and not merely against the maker of the confession.
RatioOfTheDecision	For my part, I require no such support from Section 24 .
RatioOfTheDecision	The words are perfectly clear.
RatioOfTheDecision	The mischief of the section clearly extends to the admissibility of the confession against all persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	The one and only argument adduced against this plain construction is that Section 26 makes a confession made not to a P olice officer but by a person in police custody inadmissible only against him and not against others, and it is urged that there is no sufficient reason for not excluding it against others also if a statement made to a police officer is excluded against others.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be that the legislature thought the probable extent of police pressure in the one ease was likely to be leas than in the other and thai the fact of the maker of the statement being in police custody did not require its being excluded against others.
RatioOfTheDecision	I do not say this reason is convincing but this is not the only case where a <ORG> is unable to find convincing reasons for distinctions made by the legislature, I am bound to attach more importance to the fact that very different language has been used by the legislature in two consecutive sections; there is no difficulty in finding a reason for the comprehensive language used in Section 25 .
RatioOfTheDecision	I have no hesitation, in arriving at the conclusion that the statements of prosecution witness No.
Precedent	6 and pro secution witness No.
Precedent	12 to prosecution witness No.
Precedent	31 are inadmissible in evidence, My opinion is in accordance with the view taken by <ORG> in <CITATION_1001022> (1910) 12 Bom L.R.
Precedent	899, I agree with <ORG>, that a confession which is inadmissible against the person making it is a fortiori inadmissible against another person implicated by it.
Precedent	Queen-Empress v. <NAME> (1885) I.L.R.
Precedent	9 Bom.
Precedent	131 was cited by Mr. <NAME> in support of his contention.
Precedent	The question admittedly did not arise for decision in that cage.
Precedent	The question was whether a confessional statement was admissible against the maker in an inquiry under Section 523 , Criminal Procedure Code , as to whom certain stolen property should be returned.
Precedent	The <ORG> held that the word confession has reference only to criminal proceedings, that Section 35 excluded the use of the statement in question in that case only in such proceedings and that the statement was reaeivable in evidence as an admission in the enquiry made by th e Court as to the person entitled to the return of the property.
Precedent	Reliance is placed on the observation of <NAME>, J., that "confession" in Section 25 as in Section 24 means "a confession made by an accused person, which it is proposed to prove against him to establish an offence.
Precedent	"No doubt a confession would generally be made by an accused person and would be generally also used against him.
Precedent	The point made by the learned Judge was that Section 25 did not refer to the use of a confession in other than a criminal proceeding.
Precedent	I do not think he addressed himself to the question whether a confession should always be a statement by a party to the proceeding.
Precedent	138.
Precedent	Our attention was drawn to the state of the law on the point before the cuactment of the Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	That law was contained in Sections 148 and 149 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1861, which are in substantially the same terms as Sections 25 and 26 of the Indian Evidence Act.
Precedent	They throw no useful light on the point.
Precedent	We are moreover bound bo  construe the sections in the Indian Evidence Act , which is a complete coda according to the plain meaning of the words, without reference to the previous law on the subject.
Precedent	It has been suggested that any imperfection in the drafting of Sections 24 to 26 must be attributed to the fact that Sections 148 and 149 of the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861 were bodily imported into the Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	But this does not help us, for there is the same obvious difference between the languages of Sections 148 and 149 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
Precedent	On the other hand the explanation of the word "confession" in Section 149 is against the contention for the prosecution.
Precedent	Our attention was drawn to the fact that <NAME>, J. commented strongly against the prosecution in <CITATION_1033901> (1911) I.L.R.
Precedent	38 Calc.
Precedent	559 at, p. 562, not producing the previous confessional statements made by certain approver witnesses to police officers and it is urged that the learned Judge must have regarded them, as admissible.
RatioOfTheDecision	The observat ions do not show that <NAME>, C.J., was of opinion that the abatements in question could be put in by the prosecution as corroborative evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The accused were entitled under Section 162 , Criminal Procedure Code , to ask the <ORG> to call for them and to give thorn copies (if the <ORG> thought fit to do so) to be used for cross-examining the approvers, The failure of the prose-eufion to produce them would be good cause for the strictures passed by the learned Judge.
RatioOfTheDecision	The case does nob help the prosecution.
RatioOfTheDecision	My conclusion is that the previous abatements in question wars inadmissible on account of the provisions of section.
RatioOfTheDecision	25 of the Indian Evidence Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	139.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fifth point -The fifth and last point raised in the certificate is the question whether the evidence of prosseution witness No.
Argument	31 of the previsious statements made to him by prosecution witness No.
Argument	6 and prosecution witness No.
Argument	12 is inadmissible becuase the statements made by them do him ware reduced to writing and the writing is declared to be i nadmissible in evidence on behalf of the prosecution by Section 162 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
Precedent	I am clearly of opinion that the evidence of prosecution witnees No.
Precedent	31 is not inadmissible on this ground.
Precedent	Section 161 of the Criminal Procedure Code empowers an officer making an investigation under chapter XIV of the Coda to examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case and makes it obligatory on such person to answer questions put to him by the officer; Section 162 then enacts that "the abatement made by any person if taken down in writing shall not be signed by the person making it, nor shall such writing be used as evidence."
RatioOfTheDecision	The language of Section 162 is too clear to my mind to justify the adoption of the argument that because the writing is declared inadmissible it must have been the intention of the legislature to shut out oral evidence also of the statement made to a polios officer, Perhaps it is a sufficient answer to this argument to say that the l egialabure has not said so, but has deliberately restricted the inadmissibility to the writing.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is urged that the expression "such writing" is used in the section really to denote the state-raont made to the police officer which he is not prevented from taking down in writing.
RatioOfTheDecision	But why did not the legislature say "nor shall such statement be used as evidence" instead of using the word writing.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 161 authorizes oral statements being taken, and there is no provision in that section that such oral statement cannot be proved.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the oral statement, when not reduced to writing, may bo proved, why should its being taken down in writing bo a reason for making it inadmissible?
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not contended that in consequence of its being reduced to writing the oral statement would be inadmissible on account of any general rule of evidence.
Precedent	The statement is nob one required to be reduced to writing and Section 91 of the Indian Evidence Act would not therefore provent oral evidence of the statement baing given.
Precedent	Ocal evi dance in such a case is not adduced to prove the contents of the writing.
Precedent	It is adducee bo prove what abatement the witness made to the police officer.
Precedent	It is contended that there could be no reason for allowing oral evidence to be adduced while the writing is excluded.
Precedent	But I think there was good reason for the legislature contenting itself with a provision that the writing should not bo used.
Precedent	According to Section 35 of the Indian Evidence Act, the entry by a police officer in any record of statements made to him in the discharge of his official duty under Sections 161 and 162 of the Criminal Procedure Code would itself be relevant.
Precedent	The object of the legislature in Section 162 was, I think, to make an exception to the rule contained in Section 35 of the Indian Evidence Act in the case of statements made to police officers by persons examined by them at a preliminary investigation.
Precedent	It was apparently considered unsafe to assume that a police officer making an investigation would correctly record statements made  to him.
Precedent	It is therefore provided that the statements should not be signed by the witnesses and should not be admissible in evidence.
Precedent	At the same time it was regarded as proper to make the police officer's record of such statements available to the accused at the Judge's discretion for the purpose of cross-examining any witness called for the prosecution.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> attempted to show that the exclusion of the writing alone while admitting oral evidence would lead to hardship to the accused in some oases.
Precedent	I do not consider it necessary to deal with them.
Precedent	I can easily conceive of cases where the admission of oral evidence would be a positive advantage to the accused.
Precedent	The non-exclusion of the written record might also lead to serious disadvantage to the accused.
Precedent	For instance, when it is desired to prove the statement made by a witness to the investigating officer, the prosecution might simply put in the written record without calling the officer.
Precedent	Thug it would be open to the prosecution to do aooord ing to Section 35 of the Indian Evidence Act.
Precedent	The result would bo that the accused would be deprived of the opportunity of cross-examining the officer and proving that the statement of the witness was not correctly taken down by him.
Precedent	Mr. <NAME> referred to <CITATION_36678> (1901) I.L.R.
Precedent	Calc.
Precedent	348 as authority for the position that the police offioer's record would not bo admissible as evidence under Section 35 of the Indian Evidence Act even apart from the exclusion, But with all deference to the learned Judges who decided that case, I am unable to agree with them, The deoison of the case was really rested on the ground that the record in question was not admissible under Section 162 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
Precedent	They go on to observe: "We are unable to see that Section 35 of the Indian Evidence Act has any application in the matter, for we do not consider that a document of this nature, which moreover is not necessarily a part of the official duty of a police officer to prepare at all, comes  within the description of a record, within the meaning of that section."
Precedent	But Section 35 does not require that the record in question should bo one which it is the duty of the public officer to make or prepare.
Precedent	It is quite sufficient that the entry is made by him in the discharge of his official duty.
Precedent	I am unable to entertain any doubt that a record made by an investigating officer of statements made to him by witnesses is one prepared in the discharge of his official duty.
Precedent	Clause 2 of Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that the record made by a police officer of a dying declaration shall not be inadmissible on account of anything contained in the section.
Precedent	I am unable to see under what section of the Indian Evidence Act the record of dying declaration would be admissible except under Section 35 .
Precedent	From the necessity of the case, the legislature considered it desirable to exclude dying declarations from the general rule making the police officer's record of statements inadmissible.
Precedent	<CITATION_ 390792> (1909) I.L.R.
Precedent	36 Calc.
Precedent	291 at page 286 is a dis-tinot authority against the contention of the accused.
Precedent	I agree with the opinion of the learned Judges who decided that case and with <NAME>, in <NAME> v. King-Emperor 7 All.
Precedent	L.J.
Precedent	468 that an examination of the corresponding sections in the previous <ORG> shows that the legislature deliberately restricted itself to making the writing alone inadmissible, Mr. <NAME> relied on the observations of <NAME>, J., in <CITATION_1968750> (1908) I.L.R.
Precedent	32 Bom.
Precedent	111 at pp.
Precedent	142 & 143.
Precedent	That learned Judge draws his conclusions from the history of the legislation on the subject.
Precedent	He takes it that the object of the change in the present Procedure Code was merely to confer an advantage on the accused by making the written record made by a police officer of statements made to him available to the accused for cross-examination.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the learned Judge can get over the alteration in the section in making the writing alone inadmissibl e in evidence, only by assuming that the word "writing" is not used in the section in contradistinction to the word "statement" used previously in it.
RatioOfTheDecision	This assumption is, I think, not permissible.
RatioOfTheDecision	He points out that "as the law stands, the prosecution might have an advantage over the accused in some cases."
RatioOfTheDecision	But apart from this not being a sufficient reason for refusing to give effect to the plain words of the section, I can easily think of cases in which the adoption of a contrary view might result in disadvantage to the accused, I have no hesitation in concurring with <ORG> in the view takan on the question by all the learned Judges who constituted the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	140.
RatioOfTheDecision	The result of my findings is that, in my opinion, the state-menta of the approvers, <NAME> and <NAME>, to prosecution witness No.
RatioOfTheDecision	31 and to Mr. <NAME> ought not to have been admitted in evidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	With regard to the earlier statements I have entertained some doubt whether the majority of <ORG> have clearly stated that t heir conclusions from the evidence would be the same oven if they were rejected, bub I am not prepared to dissent from the view that such is in sub-section the effect of the judgment of the learned Judges.
RatioOfTheDecision	With regard to the statements to Mr. <NAME>, however, they do nob state that their conclusions would be unaffected by their exclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	Consequently it is in my view necessary to consider whether excluding those statements there is sufficient evidence on record to sustain the conviction of the accused.
Precedent	141.
Precedent	The result of our judgments is that the petitions are dismissed.
Precedent	--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  Generally Preliminary First Second Third Fourth Fifth objection point point point point point -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- <NAME>, J.
Precedent	... 418 418 421 426 432 434 432 <NAME>, J.
Argument	... 436 436 437 441 443 448 445 <NAME>, J.
Argument	... ... ... 451 463 454 455 468 Abdur Rahim, J.
Argument	458 to 467 459 467 485 487 489 490 Sundara A yyar, J.
Precedent	... 492 495 616 525 530 538 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
