Fact	CASE NO.
Fact	: Writ Petition (civil) 4677 of 1985 PETITIONER: <NAME> RESPONDENT: <ORG>.
Fact	DATE OF JUDGMENT: 18/03/2004 BENCH: <NAME> & <NAME>.
Fact	JUDGMENT:  J U D G M E N T INTERLOCUTORY APPLICATION NO.1785/01 IN INTERLOCUTORY APPLICATION NO.22 AND IN WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO.4677 OF 1985 [With IA Nos.1806, 1815, 1817-1818, 1819, 1822, 1823, 1824, 1825, 1794 and 1795 in IA No.1785 in WP (C) No.4677/85, WP (C) NO.410/2002, IA No.1832, 1835-1836, 1838 and 1839-1840 in IA No.1785 in IA No.22 in WP (C) No.4677/85, WP (C) No.661/2002, WP (C) No.428/2002, WP (C) No.624/2002 and Contempt Petition (C) No.568/2002 in WP (C) No.428/2002] <NAME>, J.
Fact	The main question to be examined in these matters is whether the mining activity in area upto 5 kilometers from the Delhi-Haryana border on the Haryana side of the ridge and also in the Aravalli hills causes environment degradation and what directions are required to be issued.
Fact	The background in which the question has come up for consideration ma y first be noticed.
Fact	<ORG> (<ORG>) was directed by orders of this Court dated 20th November, 1995 to inspect and ascertain the impact of mining operation on the Badkal Lake and Surajkund - ecologically sensitive area falling within the State of Haryana.
Fact	In the report that was submitted, it was stated that explosives are being used for rock blasting for the purpose of mining; unscientific mining operation was resulting in lying of overburden materials (topsoil and murum remain) haphazardly; and deep mining for extracting silica sand lumps is causing ecological disaster as these mines lie unreclaimed and abandoned.
Fact	It was, inter alia, recommended that the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) should be prepared by mine lease holders for their mines and actual mining operation made operative after obtaining approval from the <ORG> or <ORG>; the EMP should be implemented following a time bound action plan; land reclamation and afforestation programmes shall als o be included in the <ORG> and must be implemented strictly by the implementing authorities.
Fact	The report recommended stoppage of mining activities within a radius of 5 kms.
Fact	from Badkal Lake and Surajkund (tourist place).
Fact	<ORG>, on the basis of the recommendations made in the report, stopped mining operations within the radius of 5 kms of Badkal Lake and Surajkund.
Fact	The mine operators raised objections to the recommendations of stoppage of mining operations.
Fact	According to them, pollution, if any, that was generated by the mining activities cannot go beyond a distance of 1 km.
Fact	and the stoppage was wholly unjustified.
Fact	<ORG> Report and earlier directions By order dated April 12, 1996, the Court sought the expert opinion of <ORG> (<ORG>) on the point whether the mining operations in the said area are to be stopped in the interest of environmental protection, pollution control and tourism development and, if so, whether the limit should be 5 kms.
Fact	or less.
Fact	<ORG> in its inspection report dated 20th April, 1996, inter alia, recommended that: "6.1 Mining.
Fact	(1) Detailed exploratory operations need to be undertaken to facilitate the estimation of reserves in the region, and for scientific management of mining operations.
Fact	(2) The mine lease-owners need to undertake the mining operations in series, i.e.
Fact	mining activities must be completed to full potential in a block before moving to the next.
Fact	This will help in reclamation of land in the block in which mining operations have been completed.
Fact	(3 to (9) ...  (10) The Environmental Management Plans (EMP) being formulated by the mine-owners should include land rejuvenation and afforestation programmes, and other measures necessary to protect the quality of the environment and human health.
Fact	The mining operations should commence only after the approval of EMPs by a designated authority.
Fact	A time-bound action plan needs to be initiated for the implementation of the measures delineated in the Environmental Management Plans.
Fact	(1 1) & (12) ...  (13) The question of lifting the ban on mining operations needs to be considered in conjunction with the implementation of stringent pollution control, land reclamation, green belt, and other Environmental Management measures so as to facilitate the availability of construction materials and employment opportunities for the workers along with the protection of environment and public health.
Fact	(14) It is considered necessary to prepare a Regional Environmental Management Plan for urgent implementation to enable eco-friendly regional development in the area."
Fact	On consideration of the reports, this Court came to the conclusion that the mining activities in the vicinity of tourist resorts are bound to cast serious impact on the local ecology.
Fact	The mining brings extensive alteration in the natural land profile of the area.
Fact	Mined pits and unattended dumps of overburdened left behind during the mining operations are the irreversible consequences of the mining operations and rock blasting, movement of he avy vehicles, movements and operations of mining equipment and machinery cause considerable pollution in the shape of noise and vibration.
Fact	The ambient air in the mining area gets highly polluted by the dust generated by the blasting operations, vehicular movement, loading/unloading/transportation and the exhaust gases from equipment and machinery used in the mining operations.
Fact	It was directed that in order to preserve environment and control pollution within the vicinity of two tourist resorts, it is necessary to stop mining activity within 2 kms.
Fact	radius of the tourist resorts of Badkal Lake and Surajkund.
Fact	The Court further directed the Director, <ORG> to enforce all the recommendations of NEERI contained in para 6.1 of its report so far as the mining operations in the State of Haryana are concerned.
Fact	Further, it was directed that failing to comply with the recommendations may result in the closure of the mining operations and that the mining leases within the area from 2 kms.
Fact	to 5 kms.
Fact	radius shall not be rene wed without obtaining prior no objection certificate from the <ORG> as also from <ORG> (<ORG>).
Fact	Unless both the Boards grant no objection certificate, the mining leases in the said area shall not be renewed.
Fact	( <CITATION_1964392> .
Fact	[]).
Fact	Present Issues The aspects to be examined include the compliance of the conditions imposed by the Pollution Boards while granting no objection certificate for mining and also compliance of various statutory provisions and notifications as also obtaining of the requisite clearances and permissions from the concerned authorities before starting the mining operations.
Fact	In matters under consideration, the areas of mining fall within the districts of Faridabad and Gurgaon in the Haryana State.
Fact	I.A.
Fact	No.1785/01 has been filed by <ORG> praying that <ORG> be directed to stop all mining activities and pumping of ground water in and from area upto 5 kms from Delhi-Haryana border in the Haryana side of the Ridge, i nter alia, stating that in the larger interest of maintaining the ecological balance of the environment and protecting the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary and the ridge located in Delhi and adjoining Haryana, it is necessary to stop mining.
Fact	In the application, it has been averred that the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary is located on the southern ridge which is one of the oldest mountain ranges of the world and represents the biogeographical outer layer of the Aravalli mountain range which is one of the most protected areas in the country.
Fact	The sanctuary is significant as it is instrumental in protecting the green lung of National Capital of Delhi and acts as a carbon sink for the industrial and vehicular emissions of the country's capital which is witnessing rapid growth in its pollution level each year.
Fact	The ridge, it is averred, is a potential shelter belt against advancing desertification and has been notified a wildlife sanctuary and reserve forest by <ORG>.
Fact	Regarding the mining activities, it is averred that for extraction of Badarpur (Silica sand), there is large scale mining activity on the Haryana side just adjacent to the wildlife sanctuary of the ridge which activities threaten the sanctuaries habitat and also pumping of large quantity of ground water from mining pits.
Fact	It was also stated that the ground water level was being depleted as a result of the mining activity.
Fact	Further, the query dust that comes out of mining pits is a serious health hazard for human population living nearby and also the wild animals inhabiting the sanctuary pointing out that the mining and extraction of ground water had been banned in <ORG> and the ridge being protected as per the order of this Court, it is necessary, that the ridge on the Haryana side is also protected - that being the extension of the range and, therefore, mining, withdrawal of ground water and destruction of flora, etc.
Fact	should also be restricted outside Delhi or at least upto 5 kms.
Fact	from Delhi-Haryana border towards Haryana.
Fact	On 6th May, 2002, this <ORG> directed the Chief Secretary, <ORG> to stop, within 48 hours, all mining activities and pumping of ground water in and from an area upto 5kms.
Fact	from Delhi- Haryana border in the Haryana side of the ridge and also in the Aravalli Hills.
Fact	The question to be considered is whether the order shall be made absolute or vacated or modified.
Fact	Our examination of the issues is confined to the effect on ecology of the mining activity carried on within an area of 5 Kms.
Fact	of Delhi-Haryana Border on Haryana side in areas falling within the district of Faridabad and Gurgaon and in Aravalli Hills within Gurgaon District.
Fact	The question is whether the mining activity deserves to be absolutely banned or permitted on compliance of stringent conditions and by monitoring it to prevent the environmental pollution.
Fact	<ORG> Visits In terms of the order passed by this <ORG> on 22nd July, 2002, <ORG> (<ORG>) was directed  to give a report with regard to environment in the area preferably after a personal visit to the area in question without any advance notice.
Fact	It may be noted that <ORG> was constituted by <ORG> under notification dated 29th January, 1998 issued in exercise of power under Section 3(1) & (3) of the Environment (Protection) Act , 1986 (for short, 'the EP Act') <NAME> was appointed its Chairman.
Fact	The <ORG> was constituted with a view to protect and improve the quality of environment and preventing, controlling and abetting environmental pollution.
Fact	<ORG> has also the power to deal with environment issues pertaining to National Capital Region which may be referred to it by <ORG>.
Fact	The <ORG> has jurisdiction over the National Capital Region as defined in clause (f) of Section 2 of the National Capital Region Planning Board Act, 1985.
Fact	The Districts of Gurgaon and Faridabad are part of the National Capital Region, under Section 2(f) read with the Schedule of the said Act.
Fact	The Chair man of the <ORG> is a convenor member of <ORG>.
Fact	<ORG> made a surprise visit to the area to see the mining sites.
Fact	The mining sites visited are located in the villages of Anangpur, Pali, Mohabatabad and Mangar, which fall within the notified area of 5 km radius from the Delhi border in the Faridabad district.
Fact	<ORG> also visited mining sites that are located outside the notified zone in Kot area, <ORG> also held consultation with the officials of <ORG> and obtained their opinion on this matter.
Fact	On August 7, 2002, members of the <ORG> visited the mining sites located within five km radius from Delhi border.
Fact	The objectives of the visit, as per <ORG>, were as follows :  1.
Fact	Assessment of the level of compliance with the conditions laid down in the regulatory procedures like the No Objection Certificate (NOC) granted by authorities to the mine owners;  2.
Fact	Evidence of land and habitat degradation in and around the mining sites;  3.
RulingByLowerCourt	Evidence of misuse and shortage of ground water in the area;  4.
RulingByLowerCourt	Asses sment of the implication of such activities for the local ecology and drinking water sources in the area.
RulingByLowerCourt	During the visit, prima facie, <ORG> found evidence of clear violation of some of the key conditions of order of this court dated May 10, 1996.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> Ist Report and Recommendations The <ORG> gave its report dated 9th August, 2002.
RulingByLowerCourt	It would be useful to reproduce the said report in extenso as under: "Anangpur area and its vicinity : <ORG> inspected the mining sites owned by <NAME> and <ORG> as well as at least 5 other mining sites in this area, which <ORG> is not clear who owns.
RulingByLowerCourt	At the time of visit there was no mining taking place.
RulingByLowerCourt	So <ORG> members assessed level of compliance with some of the key conditions laid down in the NOCs.
RulingByLowerCourt	There was clear evidence of violation of the following conditions.
RulingByLowerCourt	i.
Fact	The excavated pits should be filled with fly ash or municipal solid waste in the bottom layers.
Fact	The top soil should be used as a top layer while filling the pit.
Fact	Land reclamation and tree plantation should be  done in a planned manner over the reclaimed mine pits.
Fact	ii.
Fact	The applicant shall not discharge any effluent or groundwater outside their lease premises and shall take appropriate measures for rainwater harvesting and reuse of water so as not to affect adversely the ground water table of the area.
Fact	No mining operation shall be carried out in the water table area.
Fact	iii.
Fact	The green belt proposed in the environment management plan around the proposed mining lease area and along the road side shall be developed.
Fact	The most serious violation noticed by the <ORG> was the continuation of mining even after reaching the ground water level which has been disallowed by the regulatory agencies.
Fact	Photographs taken by <ORG>, which show deep mining pits have turned into large lakes of ground water.
Fact	In this mining lease area <ORG> members saw extensive and deep water bodies.
Fact	The water was blue, indicating that this was groundwater and not surface water runoff collected in the pits.
Fact	Even more serious violation noticed was configuratio n of water pipes laid out to draw water out of the pits to throw them over hills and let the water flow out.
Fact	This is a grave misuse of precious ground water in an area where ground water is the only source of water for the local population - both urban and rural.
Fact	<ORG> members talked to local villagers who complained that water table in the area has gone down over a period of time and that the village is facing water shortage.
Fact	While earlier ground water could be tracked at the depth of 30-35 ft. now deep bore wells have been dug to get drinking water, in addition, noise and dust pollution from the mining sites are a problem.
Fact	Goodwill mine in Pali village : <ORG> found similar violation of conditions and evidence of mining sites reaching the level of ground water in deep pits and pipes fitted to drain out water here as well.
Fact	During the long drive to various mining sites, <ORG> could not see any credible sign of green belt along the roads.
Fact	Moreover, one important condition of NOCs is that "a safe distance shoul d be maintained from the road to overburden dumps and the mine pits in accordance with the directions/notifications of the department of environment, Haryana and <ORG>."
Fact	But <ORG> noticed mining sites very close to the roads and also very close to the ecologically sensitive area of Asola sanctuary near the Goodwill mines.
Fact	Stone crushing sites in Pali : <ORG> has inspected the stone crushing sites in the area.
Fact	All sites had a lot of material and trucks being loaded.
Fact	It is difficult to establish if these are the left over material from the past or were products from banned sites or from sites from outside the notified area.
Fact	<ORG> was informed that after the <ORG> directive of May 2002, the stone crushers were not being operated, except between the hours of 5 am to 9 am.
Fact	<ORG> was, therefore, unable to verify the working conditions of these crushers.
Fact	But it did not find any evidence of afforestation as stipulated by the <ORG> directive or any evidence of dust minimizing equipment.
Fact	Mining a round Mangar village : Again the same situation was found around Anangpur.
Fact	The villagers interviewed here were caught between the devastation of the mines, desperate shortage of drinking water and the only livelihood option that these manual stone quarries provided.
Fact	Legal mining in Kot area : As mining is banned along the 5 km radius from the Delhi border, <ORG> also visited some mines that are outside the notified area to ascertain the state of the environment.
Fact	In this area, surface mining is being done and not deep mining.
Fact	Therefore, as yet, the groundwater reserves are not being touched in this region.
Fact	The entire area was like a giant dust field.
Fact	We saw no evidence of any afforestation or even dust minimising efforts being undertaken in the areas that are being mined.
Fact	We did see one tanker of water, which was sprinkling the roads, unable to stop the dust from swirling.
Fact	<ORG> could not see any protection for the workers from dust.
Fact	As this area will clearly emerge as a major mining in the future, it is importa nt that the mining area is properly demarcated and environment management plan implemented to enable scientific mining to minimize degradation of the environment.
Fact	Faridabad-Gurgaon road : <ORG> saw mining alongside the road.
Fact	Though the mines were closed because of the Hon'ble court directive, <ORG> saw vast pits and mining activity in this area.
Fact	This is the road for the proposed bypass from Delhi.
Fact	3.
Fact	The present laws and regulations in the area We have assessed the current applicable laws and regulations in the area, which govern land use and mining so as to understand what efforts have been made by different agencies to ensure compliance.
Fact	?
Fact	In may 1992, parts of the Aravalli range were declared ecologically sensitive under the Environment (Protection) Act .
Fact	Under this notification, certain activities - including all new mining operations, including renewals of mining leases - are restricted and permission has to be sought from <ORG>.
Fact	This notification is valid for reserved  forests in the districts of Gurgaon in Haryana and Alwar in Rajasthan.
Fact	?
Fact	In August 1992, <ORG> had issued a notification under the Punjab Land Preservation Act 1900, banning the clearing and breaking up the land not under cultivation, quarrying of stone... in the Badkal area without prior permission of the forest department.
Fact	This ban was for 30 years.
Fact	Earlier it had already issued a similar notification for the Pali area for 25 years.
Fact	?
Fact	In 1996, <ORG> banned all mining activity within 2 kms of the Badkal and Surajkund tourist resorts.
Fact	?
Fact	In the same order, it ordered that mining leases within the area from 2 km to 5 km radius shall not be renewed without obtaining no-objection certificates from <ORG> as also <ORG> (<ORG>).
Fact	It stipulated that "unless both the boards grant no objection certificate, the mining leases in the said area shall not be renewed".
Fact	?
Fact	Mining in the 2-5 kms was allowed under conditi on that there would be strict adherence to the environment management plan laid down by the <ORG>.
Fact	It has to be noted here that the <ORG> had in its report to <ORG> in 1996 stated that the "deep mining for silica is causing an ecological disaster".
Fact	<ORG> has recommended that mining activity "should be stopped within a radius of 5 kms from Badkal and Surajkund.
Fact	The subsequent report of <ORG> dated 20.4.1996, recommended green belt at 1 km radius all around the boundaries of the two lakes.
Fact	On this basis, <ORG> directed that radius be extended to 2 kms for a green belt and to cushion the impacts of air and noise pollution.
Fact	?
Fact	<ORG> in its order asked the agencies to ensure enforcement of the recommendations of <ORG>.
Fact	It directed that "failure to comply with the recommendations may result in the closure of the mining operations."
Fact	4.
Fact	Compliance and enforcement : absent and missing To discuss the future strategy for this area, it would be important to assess the track-record of th e different agencies in ensuring that the previous orders and directives are enforced and complied with.
Fact	1.
Fact	No mining within 2 kms of Badkal and Surajkund : Probably enforced.
Fact	But difficult to assess as the area is hilly.
Fact	2.
Fact	Mining within 2-5 kms should get permission from <ORG> and <ORG>.
Fact	The <ORG> has issued 2 NOCs, dated December 20, 2001 and May 6, 2002.
Fact	No further record has been found of NOCs given for mining in this area.
Fact	<ORG> has not been able to find the NOCs granted by the <ORG>.
Fact	Compliance with the environmental management plans recommended by <ORG> as directed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court.
Fact	S.  No.
Fact	Directive Enforced or not  1.
Fact	200 mts wide green belt along Surajkund and Badkal Shrubs and wild growth.
Fact	No real evidence of good afforestation.
Fact	2.
Fact	100 mts wide green belt outside mining lease boundary Definitely not done.
Fact	<ORG> did not see afforestation, except for some recent plantation of dying and dead trees in one or two places.
Fact	The sign boards  were more prominent than the trees they were supposed to show.
Fact	3.
Fact	100 mts open peripheral area around stone crusher zone with green belt Not done  4.
Fact	Green belt on either side of the road between Surajkund and Badkal.
Fact	We saw large scale construction on this road  - from schools to management colleges and housing colonies.
Fact	5.
Fact	Mining should commence only after the environmental management plan (EMP) is approved by a designated authority There is no evidence of an environmental management plan being adhered to in this region.
Fact	Adherence to the conditions of the No-objection Certificate granted by <ORG> for mining S.  No.
Fact	Directive Enforced or not  1.
Fact	Mining to be done with approved mining plan No evidence  2.
Fact	Excavated pit to be filled by fly ash or municipal solid waste in the bottom layers.
Fact	Overburden should be used in the middle layer.
Fact	Top soil on top layer and afforestation.
Fact	<ORG> saw no evidence that this recommendation had even been attempted to be followed.
Fact	All abandoned mines were left open and degr aded.
Fact	The entire region was pockmarked with deep holes and overburdens.
Fact	3.
Fact	No discharge of effluent or groundwater outside lease premises.
Fact	Must take measures for rain water harvesting and reuse of water so as not to affect the groundwater table in the areas.
Fact	No mining operations shall be carried out in the water table area.
Fact	Not done.
Fact	Gross violation.
Fact	See section on water for details.
Fact	4.
Fact	Ambient air quality standards to be complied with.
Fact	No evidence.
Fact	Mine was closed.
Fact	5.
Fact	Noise level at the boundary shall conform with noise standards No evidence.
Fact	Mine was closed.
Fact	6.
Fact	Green belt around lease area and roadside Not done.
Fact	7.
Fact	Clearance of groundwater board for the usage of the groundwater will be obtained, for the conservation of groundwater and to ascertain that there will be no impacts on the groundwater table of the area.
Fact	No evidence.
Fact	Groundwater board has not given any clearance that we could ascertain.
Fact	From the above, it is clear that little or nothing has been done to seriously comply with the directi ves of the Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as to enforce the regulations and conditions laid down by the authorities for environmental management of the mining areas.
Fact	5.
Fact	Impact on groundwater reserves It has been argued by <ORG> in its IA no.1785 of 2001 that the expert committee constituted by it under the Chairmanship of the principal conservator of forests has submitted that there is a water divide between the two boundaries of the two states which prevents the flow of water from Delhi side to Haryana side.
Fact	It has, therefore, argued that the mining on the Haryana side is not affecting the water balance in the Delhi side of the ridge.
Fact	It has further said that only in four pits the groundwater was pumped regularly and in two pits occasionally.
Fact	Therefore, it has argued that little or no impact on groundwater reserves is possible.
Fact	5.1 <ORG> EPCA requested <ORG> (<ORG>) for its opinion.
Fact	The Board has based its recommendations on the data available with it  as well as a field survey.
Fact	The key issues are :  1.
Fact	On the issue of the ridge providing a water divide between the two states, the <ORG> has maintained that while the surface water divide follows the Delhi-Haryana border, except in the catchment of Bhuria Nala, `the surface water divide may not be the groundwater divide in the strict sense due to secondary porosity and also flat topped nature of the hills.'
Fact	It also states that the Aravalli hills are highly fractured, jointed and weathered making the major recharge zone for the surrounding areas.
Fact	2.
Fact	On the impact on the groundwater reserves due to mining, the <ORG> has found that its observation wells have shown an increase in groundwater levels in Anangpur, Mangar, after the mining has been stopped in May.
Fact	Therefore, in spite of monsoon failure and continued abstraction of water, the observation wells have noted increased water levels within just 2 months of the mining being closed.
Fact	The groundwater levels in a tube well monitored in Mewla Maharajpur during  mid July and first week of August showed a rise of 0.18 metres, A higher rise - 0.71 to 0.78 metres was observed in the two tube wells near the Mangar mines and Pali mines in the two months since the mines were closed.
Fact	This clearly points to the impact of mining on groundwater reserves.
Fact	This fact was also confirmed in the interviews done by <ORG> at site.
Fact	3.
Fact	<ORG> also notes that contrary to what has been claimed, the mined water is not being pumped into abandoned pits to recharge the groundwater.
Fact	Instead the groundwater pumped is discharged into the surrounding nalas, leading to "wastage" of groundwater.
Fact	For instance, in the case of Anangpur mines, the water was pumped into the Bhuria Nala and in the case of Pali, the groundwater was discharged into a nala to the Badkal lake and from Manger mine towards Dhauj lake causing "enormous losses to groundwater resources of the area".
Fact	The mined water is also full of silt, which reduces recharge as well.
Fact	4.
Fact	Furthermore, <ORG> notes that the large surface lakes in the  mines are leading to huge losses of groundwater through evaporation.
Fact	5.
Fact	<ORG> (<ORG>) has notified these areas - South district of NCT Delhi, Faridabad, <ORG> area, Gurgaon town as water stressed areas and has put regulatory measures on ground water development in these areas.
Fact	Given all this, <ORG> concludes that the "dewartering of mines in the Aravalli hills has affected groundwater regimes of the mine area as well as buffer zone resulting in the depletion of ground water resources."
RulingByLowerCourt	5.2 Compliance with groundwater related regulations The NOC given by <ORG>, includes an explicit condition regarding ground water :  That the mine owner will ensure that there is no discharge of effluent of ground water outside lease premises.
RulingByLowerCourt	They must take measures for rain water harvesting and reuse of water so as not to affect the groundwater table in the areas.
RulingByLowerCourt	Most importantly, it stipulates that no mining operations shall be carried  out in the water table area.
RulingByLowerCourt	This condition has been grossly violated.
RulingByLowerCourt	Even the Haryana government's affidavit in court accepts that pumping of ground water is taking place, though it attempts to soften the issue by arguing that it is only being done in a few cases.
RulingByLowerCourt	Under this condition, mining is not allowed in the water table area.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> saw deep and extensive pits of mines with vast water bodies.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> also saw evidence of pumps and pipes being used to drain out the ground water so that mining could continue.
RulingByLowerCourt	Therefore, the miners are mining for silica, but also in the process, mining and destroying the ground water reserves of the areas.
RulingByLowerCourt	In times of such water stress and desperation, this water mining is nothing less than a gross act of wastage of a key resource.
RulingByLowerCourt	This time the stress has been further aggravated by the failure of monsoon.
RulingByLowerCourt	Notices have been issued in the nearby housing colonies stating that fall in groundwater table due to lack of rains is responsible for water shortage in the area this seas on.
RulingByLowerCourt	This only indicates how important it is to conserve ground water in the region for long term sustainability of drinking water sources.
RulingByLowerCourt	Ground water is the only source of drinking water here."
RulingByLowerCourt	On the basis of study and visit as well as the report of <ORG>, <ORG> made the following recommendations : "1.
RulingByLowerCourt	The ban on the mining activities and pumping of ground water in and from an area upto 5 kms.
RulingByLowerCourt	from the Delhi-Haryana border in the Haryana side of the ridge and also in the Aravalli Hill must be maintained.
RulingByLowerCourt	2.
RulingByLowerCourt	Not only must further degradation be halted but, all efforts must be made to ensure that the local economy is rejuvenated, with the use of plantations and local water harvesting based opportunities.
Fact	It is indeed sad to note the plight of people living in these hills who are caught between losing their water dependent livelihood and between losing their only desperate livelihood to break stones in the quarries.
Fact	It is essential that <ORG> seriously implements  programmes to enhance the land based livelihood of people ?
Fact	agriculture, animal care and forestry.
Fact	Local people must not be thrown into making false choices, which may secure their present but will destroy their future.
Fact	Already, all the villages visited by <ORG> complained of dire and desperate shortages of drinking water.
Fact	Women talked about long queues before taps to collect water.
Fact	Clearly, water resources of the region are critical inputs to development and cannot be wasted and destroyed like this.
Fact	The state government must come up with strategies to involve local communities in the future development of this region.
Fact	We have been given to understand that under the mining lease, 10 per cent of the royalty is to be given to local villagers.
Fact	We have also understood that the turnover is of the mining operations in this area is substantial ?
Fact	between Rs.50 lakhs to Rs.
RulingByLowerCourt	1 crore a day were the gross estimates provided to us.
RulingByLowerCourt	However, we do not have any estimate of the money that has been given to villagers from th is revenue.
RulingByLowerCourt	But there was little evidence in these poor and destitute villages that any effort had been made to share the proceeds with them.
RulingByLowerCourt	3.
Fact	<ORG> must be consulted urgently about what should be done with the huge standing water in the area.
Fact	This is a valuable national resource and the Board should be asked if the water is best conserved by covering it to stop evaporation or should it be used for recharge and storage with further water harvesting efforts.
Argument	4.
Argument	<ORG> (<ORG>) should be asked to extend the notification under the Environment (Protection) Act to the Faridabad part of the Aravalli and ridge as well.
Argument	Currently, the notification is only for Gurgaon district.
Argument	This notification declaring it an ecologically sensitive area will help to regulate the activities in this region.
Argument	5.
Fact	It is not clear to us if adequate planning for water is being done in the large scale construction activities being undertaken in this area.
Fact	This aspect is outside the  purview of this report but needs to be examined carefully.
RulingByLowerCourt	6.
RulingByLowerCourt	It must also be noted that Gurgaon-  Faridabad road is being proposed as the major bypass for the city of Delhi.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> will note its directives on the air pollution case in this regard.
Fact	It has been said to the court in that matter that <ORG> is intending to widen the road and bids have even been issued to this effect.
Fact	Therefore, it is all the more important that the mining activity along the road must not be allowed.
Fact	The 5 kms.
Fact	ban from the border of Delhi will take care of this requirement.
RulingByLowerCourt	7.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> would also recommend that the mining area outside the 5 kms.
RulingByLowerCourt	area must be demarcated and regulated.
RulingByLowerCourt	In this context, <ORG> would like to draw the attention of the court to the violations and gross disregard for regulations found in the present mines.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is not out of place to mention that these mines are owned by very powerful and highly placed individuals in the establishment.
RulingByLowerCourt	In a related case <ORG> b and Haryana has directed on 20.4.2001 a <ORG> enquiry on the basis of a public interest litigation filed by a journalist.
RulingByLowerCourt	In its order <ORG> maintained that its examination has found evidence that illegal mining operations are going on in the area.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> also noted the bias of <ORG> to shield the offenders and has said that because there is prima facie evidence of the involvement of a `person who holds the high position of the cabinet minister in the state', the enquiry should be done by <ORG>.
Fact	This enquiry is still ongoing.
Fact	During the examination of the case, <ORG> was told of other persons involved in the mining activity who are highly influential and part of the ruling political parties in the state and <ORG>.
Fact	In this respect, <ORG> would recommend that tighter and constant monitoring of the area must be done by a <ORG> agency.
Fact	To increase accountability, <ORG> would also recommend that the environment management plan (EMP) for the mining area as well as th e conditions of the NOC should be made a public document.
Fact	All other subsequent monitoring reports of this region must be available publicly, preferably on the website of the monitoring agency."
Fact	With the report, a note given by the Chairmen, <ORG> on impact of pumping of ground water from mines and ground water regime in mining area and its buffer zone in Aravalli hills of NCT Delhi, Faridabad and Gurgaon Districts of Haryana was also annexed.
Fact	The said note reads as under :  Based on available data with <ORG> and a quick survey in and around mining area in Aravalli hills, following observations are made -  "1.
Fact	The area under consideration forms part of Aravalli range from where mining of silica- sand and other construction material was being carried out.
Fact	The mining of silica sand was mainly carried out below water table by dewatering the mines whereas mining for other construction material is carried out above water table.
Fact	The major mining areas are Anangpur, Pali, Ma nger and Mohabbatabad.
Fact	2.
Fact	The surface water divide in the area approximately follows Delhi-Haryana boarder except the catchment of Bhuria Nala flowing in Haryana State, which extends in Asola area of Delhi State also.
Fact	The formations in the Aravalli hills are highly fractured, jointed and weathered making it the major recharge zone for the surrounding areas.
Fact	The surface water divide may not be ground water divide in strict sense due to secondary porosity and also flat-topped nature of the hills.
Fact	3.
Fact	The pumping of ground water during mining of Silica sand affects ground water regime of surrounding area.
Fact	During the field visit, it was reported by local people that during the dewatering of mines there was decline in ground water levels and reduction in discharge in surrounding wells whereas after stoppage of pumping the rise in water levels and increase in discharge has been reported.
Fact	In few observation wells on down stream side of mines rise in ground water levels has been observed in Anangpur, Manger and vill ages after stoppage of abstraction of ground water from deep mines.
Fact	The ground water levels in a tube well monitored in Mewla Maharajpur during mid July 2002 and first week of August 2002 were 24.39 and 24.57 m. below ground level respectively, showing a rise of 0.18 m. Ground water levels in tube well located at temple near Manger mine in second week of July 2002 and first week of August, 2002 were 51.70 and 49.99. m. below ground level respectively showing a rise of 0.71 m. Similarly, ground water level in a tube well at Indernagar in Delhi area near Pali mine in third week of June 2002 and first week of August 2002 were 59.68 and 58.90 m.  below ground level respectively showing a rise of 0.78 m. The stoppage of dewatering of mines has resulted in rise of ground water levels in surrounding areas.
Fact	4.
Fact	It has been observed that drainage pattern of the area has been modified due to haphazard mining and dumping of waste material which has bearing on natural path of ground water flow in the area.
Fact	5.
Fact	It is clai med that abandoned pits act as recharge pits and in some cases the pumped ground water is put in these pits so there may not be substantial modification in the conditions of ground water regime.
Fact	All the ground water pumped out from Anangpur mine has not been put into abandoned adjoining pits resulting in wastage of ground water by discharge into Bhuria Nala.
Fact	Observation have indicated that Bhuria Nala which was ephemeral stream became a perennial stream during mining operations and now flow has stopped after closure of mining activity.
Fact	Similarly, pumped out ground water from Pali mine was being discharged in a easterly flowing nala to Badkal Lane and from Manger mine in a south westerly flowing nala towards Dhauj lake causing enormous losses to ground water resources of the area.
Fact	Further, the pumped out water cannot be recharged effectively due to its high silt content.
Fact	In silica sand mines the water table has been intersected and in presently exposed to the atmosphere causing huge losses to ground water thro ugh evaporation.
Fact	6.
Fact	Studies conducted by <ORG> have revealed that water levels in Faridabad new town which falls in buffer zone of mine area have declined by 1.44 m/year.
Fact	The decline of ground water level in the towns has been attributed to over development of ground water for domestic and industrial uses which is totally dependent on ground water.
Fact	The pumping out of ground water for mining of silica sand in recharge zone might have aggravated the declining trend of ground water levels which otherwise would have contributed to the buffer zone.
Fact	7.
Fact	<ORG> has notified South district of NCT Delhi and Faridabad and Ballabhgarh Municipal Corporation area and Gurgaon town and adjoining industrial area in August 2000, October 1998 and December 2000 respectively mainly on consideration of over development of ground water resources resulting in substantial decline in ground water levels.
Fact	Regulatory measures on ground water development have been imposed in these areas.
Fact	8.
Fact	Therefore, it is observed that dewatering of mines in Aravalli hills has affected ground water regime of the mine area as well as buffer zone resulting in depletion of ground water resources."
Fact	When the aforesaid report came up for consideration, some of the mine owners submitted that their mines had not been inspected by <ORG>.
Fact	Particulars of the mines that were stated to have not been inspected were filed on 23rd September, 2002.
Fact	<ORG> was requested to carry out the inspection of the said areas/mines.
Fact	The Committee was also permitted to associate such other organizations or persons as it may deem fit and proper for the purpose of inspection.
Fact	<ORG> 2nd Report and Recommendations In terms of the aforesaid order, 26 mines were inspected and report dated 21st October, 2002 was submitted.
Fact	The observations made as a request of inspection in regard to each mine are as follows : "The numbers indicated in parenthesis are serial number of mines given in the list of mines furnished by <ORG> sh <NAME>, senior advocate to <ORG> that was forwarded to <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	1.
Fact	(no.9) Name of Mine/Area : New Anangpur <ORG> M/s <NAME>, Location : Village New Anangpur, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity : 186.52 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : <ORG> Status of Mining : Above groundwater level Whether groundwater is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances : No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	This mine is located very close to the Delhi border (in close proximity to the Asola sanctuary).
Fact	<ORG> members were shown two pits, which were not being worked currently.
Fact	There was no groundwater exploitation seen in these pits.
Fact	Only brown stagnant rain water was seen.
Fact	But what was very clear was that this mining lease was adjoining the boundary of Delhi.
Fact	Only recent plantation of sapling was noticed along the path.
Fact	2.
Fact	(13) Name of Mine/Area: Anangpur <ORG> M/s.
Fact	<ORG>  Location : Village Anang pur, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity : 175.00 Hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted: Silica Sand Mines.
Fact	Status of Mining : Below groundwater level Whether ground water is extracted : Yes Status of environmental clearances : NOC granted by state pollution control board for renewal of lease in 1999.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	This mine has large pits where sand and silica was being extracted.
Fact	This was a working mine and had large amount of water in the two pits.
Fact	<ORG> members also saw a pipe, which was currently unused, meant for pumping out the water from the pits.
Fact	The pits were at least 100-150 feet deep and the groundwater had been clearly exploited for some time.
Fact	Large amount of overburden were also seen in the area.
Fact	3.
Fact	(12) Name of Mine/Area: Anangpur Silica sand mines, M/s.
Fact	S.P.
Fact	Sethi, Anangpur.
Fact	Location: Village Anangpur Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 489.34 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica sand, China clay, ordi nary sand, stone road material (RM) and masonry stone (MS) Status of Mining : Below groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : Yes.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	The mining pit here has tuned into a huge groundwater lake, Groundwater is fully exposed.
Fact	Extensive oberburden could be seen near the pits.
Fact	It was very evident that no major efforts were made to create plantation in the area.
Fact	Some new and young saplings could be seen along side the paths leading to the pits.
Fact	Clearly these were planted very recently.
Fact	4.
Fact	(8) Name of Mine/Area: Anangpur Silica sand mines, M/s.
Fact	<ORG>.
Fact	Location: Village Anangpur Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 188.47 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica sand, China clay, ordinary sand, stone RM and MS Status: seen one closed pit.
Fact	Did not see any water.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: NOC granted by <ORG>.
Fact	5.
Fact	(7) Name of  Mine/Area: Mewla maharajpur Silica sand mines, <ORG> <ORG>  Location: Village Mewla Maharajpur Distt.. Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 162.905 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica sand, China clay, ordinary sand, stone road material (RM) and masonry stone (MS) Status : surface mining from the rocks Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	One pit seen, Mostly stone being quarried.
Fact	Some water seen.
Fact	No evidence of tree plantation seen in the area.
Fact	But mine pits are ajoining road.
Fact	6.
Fact	(19) Name of Mine/Area: <ORG>.
Fact	Ramkrishna Purni Devi..
Fact	Location: Village Badkal Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 369.4 hec.
Fact	(Of this 121 hec.
Fact	Falls within 2 km of Badkal Tourist Complex where mining has been banned) Mineral Extracted : Silica sand, ordinary sand, road metal, masonry stone and minor mineral Status: mining above groundwater table Wheth er ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	<ORG> members saw one pit located next to the border of Delhi.
Fact	The mining area is hard rock and the pit was being worked for stone.
Fact	The mining site was at the boundary of Delhi and the Asola sanctuary was seen at a close distance.
Fact	This mine is also adjoining the road.
Fact	7.
Fact	(2) Name of Mine/Area: <ORG> Proprietor <NAME>.
Fact	Location: Village Pali Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Mineral extracted : Ordinary stone, road metal, masonry stone Under litigation in <ORG> of Delhi.
Fact	8.
Fact	(11) Name of Mine/Area: <ORG>, M/s <ORG>.
Fact	Location: Village Pali, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 50.5 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica sand, China clay, sand Status of Mining : Below water table.
Fact	Whether ground water is extracted : Yes.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: NOC granted by <ORG> in 1 999 for renewal of lease.
Fact	Asked to comply with conditions laid down by <ORG> as well.
Fact	No environmental management plan as yet.
Fact	A deep pit with extensive water body.
Fact	Pipes pumps and generators could be seen at the site.
Fact	Water is extracted from the pit.
Fact	Very little plantation could be seen at the site.
Fact	The pit is contiguous to other mines in the area and the extent of groundwater being exploited is massive and the expanse is vast.
Fact	Some trees have been planted along the roadside.
Fact	This mine is adjoining the main Delhi bypass of Faridabad-Gurgaon, which is being tendered for a four-lane highway.
Fact	9.
Fact	(17) Name of Mine/Area: M/s.
Fact	<NAME> Location: Village Pali, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 127.95 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica, China clay, sand, quartzite Status: Below groundwater table.
Fact	Whether ground water is extracted : Yes.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Large lake of ground water could be se en at the site.
Fact	The lake apparently covers a few contiguous mining pits.
Fact	No efforts to create plantation in the area except a few young saplings which seemed to have been planted very recently.
Fact	Huge overburden could be seen near the pits.
Fact	This mine is adjoining the main Delhi bypass of Faridabad-Gurgaon, which is being tendered for a four lane highway.
Fact	10.
Fact	(20) Name of Mine/Area: M/s.
Fact	<NAME> Location: Village Gothra, Mohatabad, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 296 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica sand, ordinary sand, road metal and masonry stone.
Fact	Status: Below groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : Yes.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Deep mining pits with large water bodies could be seen.
Fact	The mine is also contiguous to the other mines so the amount of water that is being exploited is massive and uncontrolled.
Fact	Huge amounts of overburden were also seen in the area.
Fact	In this mine some  efforts have been made to create plantations and the trees, unlike those seen in other areas, were more mature.
Fact	This mine is adjoining the main bypass of Faridabad- Gurgaon, which is being tendered for a four-lane highway.
Fact	11.
Fact	(22) Name of Mine/Area: <ORG>.
Fact	Location: Plot No.1 Village Manger, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 63.225 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica sand, China clay, ordinary sand, road metal and masonry stone.
Fact	Status: above groundwater.
Fact	Whether ground water is extracted :No .
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Observed surface stone mining.
Fact	No water seen.
Fact	New lease and so the mines have not reached ground water levels as yet.
Fact	But mine ear Delhi bypass of Faridabad-Gurgaon road.
Fact	12A.
Fact	(1) Name of Mine/Area: M/s.
Fact	<ORG>  Location: Plot No.6, Village Manger, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 59.3875 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Ordinary sand, road metal and masonry stone.
Fact	Status: Above groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: Clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Observed surface stone mining.
Fact	No water seen.
Fact	New lease and so the mines have not reached groundwater levels as yet.
Fact	But mine near Delhi bypass of Faridabad-Gurgaon Road.
Fact	12B.
Fact	Name of Mine/Area: M/s.
Fact	<ORG>  Location: Plot No.8, Village Manger, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 63.75 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Ordinary sand, road metal and masonry stone.
Fact	Status: Above groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: Clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Observed surface stone mining.
Fact	No water seen.
Fact	New lease and so the mines have not reached groundwater levels as yet.
Fact	But mine near Delhi bypass of Faridabad-Gurgaon road.
Fact	13.
Fact	(25) Name of Mine/Area: M/s.
Fact	As hok Minerals industry Location: Plot No.7, Village Manger, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity:67.00 hec.
Fact	Status: Above groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Observed surface stone mining.
Fact	No water seen.
Fact	New lease and so the mines have not reached groundwater levels as yet.
Fact	But mine is on the Delhi bypass of Faridabad-Gurgaon road.
Fact	14.
Fact	(23) Name of Mine/Area: M/s.
Fact	<ORG>  Location: Plot No.2 & 3, Village Manger, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 44.785 hec and 56.4375 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Stone mining Status: Below groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : Yes.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Was shown one pit with small water collection.
Fact	But at a distance seen another pit with large amount of groundwater collected.
Fact	This mine is being worked and clearly water must have been pumped from the mine.
Fact	Deep pits seen.
Fact	But mine is near Delhi bypass of Faridabad-Gurgaon road.
Fact	15.
Fact	(10) Name of Mine/Area: <ORG>.
Fact	Location: Plot No.5 Village Manger, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity:33.0375 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Ordinary sand, road metal and masonry stone Status: Below groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : Yes.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Exposed groundwater could be seen.
Fact	This mine was also been worked.
Fact	Deep pits seen in this mine.
Fact	16.
Fact	(24) Name of Mine/Area: <ORG>  Location: Plot No.11, Village Manger, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 126.75 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica sand and stone Status: Above groundwater table.
Fact	Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearanc es: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Stone quarry.
Fact	No water seen.
Fact	Some efforts have been made to create plantation.
Fact	17.
Fact	(18) Name of Mine/Area: M/s.
Fact	<NAME> Location: Village Pali, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 44.48 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Solica/Ord.
Fact	Sand & stone, road metal and masonry stone Status: Above groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Recent lease.
Fact	Mining activity had recently started.
Fact	New pit seen and as yet only stone was being quarried.
Fact	18.
Fact	(4) Name of Mine/Area: <ORG>, M/s.
Fact	S.P.
Fact	Sethi.
Fact	Location: Village Pali, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 82.20 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : <ORG>.
Fact	Sand, <NAME> clay stone (road metal and masonry) Status: Below groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : Yes.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances:  NOC given by <ORG> in 1999 for renewal of lease.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Pit with little water seen.
Fact	Being worked.
Fact	Large amount of overburden was seen close to mine.
Fact	1 hec of plantation created near mine.
Fact	19.
Fact	(3) Name of Mine/Area: <ORG>, M/s.
Fact	<NAME> Location: Pali, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 162 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Sand <NAME> clay, stone (road and masonry) Status: Above groundwater table <NAME>r ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Pit with no water seen.
Fact	Being worked.
Fact	Large amount of overburden was seen close to mine.
Fact	20.
Fact	(5) Name of Mine/Area: <ORG>, M/s.
Fact	Lucky Minerals Location: Village Pali, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 261.36 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Sand, <NAME> clay stone (road metal and masonry) Status: Above groundwater table <NAME> r ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Pit with no water seen.
Fact	Being worked.
Fact	Large amount of overburden was seen close to mine.
Fact	Nominal plantation seen.
Fact	But area with lessee is very large over - 261 ha - and no idea if other mines in the area have reached water levels.
Fact	21.
Fact	(6) Name of Mine/Area: Mohabatabad Silica sand mines, M/s.
Fact	<NAME> Location: Village Mohtabad, Distt.
Fact	Faridabad.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 399.59 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Sand, <NAME> clay, stone (road metal and masonry) Status: Above groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Shown pit where stone is being quarried.
Fact	But area with lessee is very large over - almost 400 hec.
Fact	- and no idea if other mines in the area have reached water level as yet.
Fact	22.
Fact	(14) Name of Mine/Area: M/s.
Fact	Tejvir Singh and Co.
Fact	Location: Vil lage Bandhwari, Distt.
Fact	Gurgaon.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 91.20 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica Sand, Ord.
Fact	Sand, <NAME> clay, quartz & stone mine.
Fact	Status: Above groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: Clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Stone quarry.
Fact	Very recent lease granted and clearance has only been done in April 2002.
Fact	Large seemingly abandoned, pits seen on road.
Fact	Labourer colony near on road near mine and a number of trucks seen on this road carrying material.
Fact	No plantation seen.
Fact	23.
Fact	(15) Name of Mine/Area: Mr. <NAME> Location: Village Balola, Distt.
Fact	Gurgaon.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 19.15 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica Sand and <NAME> clay.
Fact	Status: Above groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: Clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Stone quarry Recent lease and clearance of January 2002.
Fact	N o plantation seen.
Fact	The mine is on the main Delhi bypass - Gurgaon-Faridabad road, which is being developed as a four-lane bypass.
Fact	24.
Fact	(16) Name of Mine/Area: Mr. <NAME> Location: Plot No.3, Village Behrampur, Distt.
Fact	Gurgaon.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 94.05 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica sand quartzites.
Fact	Status: Above groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Stone quarry.
Fact	Recent lease.
Fact	No plantation seen.
Fact	But near village.
Fact	As this mine is near the five km radius, other mines with crushers and blasting seen at close distance.
Fact	(11B - 22) Name of Mine/Area: M/s.
Fact	<ORG> Location: Village Haidpur, Distt.
Fact	Gurgaon.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 18.125 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Stone Status: Above groundwater table Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No clearance given.
Fact	No environmental  management plan.
Fact	Stone quarry.
Fact	No plantation seen.
Fact	Near habitation of Gurgaon town.
Fact	25.
Fact	(21) Name of Mine/Area: Mr. <NAME> Location: Village Nathpur, Distt.
Fact	Gurgaon.
Fact	Total Area of Land on lease/Actual area under mining activity: 5.996 hec.
Fact	Mineral Extracted : Silica Sand .
Fact	Status: Above groundwater level (surface mining) Whether ground water is extracted : No.
Fact	Status of environmental clearances: No Clearance given.
Fact	No environmental management plan.
Fact	Stone quarry.
Fact	No plantation seen.
Fact	Mine on main Delhi-Gurgaon road at the border of Delhi.
Fact	Mine lease recently awarded at the edge of the DLF residential colony.
Fact	Allegations that illegal mining is being done at the Delhi side of this mine.
Fact	Next to the protected area of Delhi forest.
Fact	In respect of the ground water regime the report states that : "The key issue to examine is the impact of mining on the ground water regime in the region.
Fact	It is evident from the inspection done by <ORG> that ground water reserves are being exploited and destroyed, it must be str essed that it is not a matter of individual mines reaching ground water levels or not, the issue to examine is the water regime of the entire area."
Fact	The report further states that "during its inspection to the mines, <NAME>, Minister of Cooperatives in the <ORG> and also a mine owner told <ORG> members that the impact of ground water abstraction is minimal.
Argument	He maintained that the miners were harvesting the water and not allowing it to flow to the Yamuna, where it would be lost to the <ORG>.
Argument	A perusal of the reports of the ground water regime shows that this contention cannot be upheld."
Argument	It is also stated in the report that "the geology and geomorphology of the area comprises oldest exposed lithology with upland units.
Fact	The rock type is mainly quartzite and these rise 150-200 metres above ground level in the quartzite's the ground water aquifers occur in the weathered zones and interspaces within interconnected joints and fractures.
Fact	According to the <ORG>, the unconfined aquifer is about 50 metres  thick.
Fact	But between the 50-110 metre below ground level (bgi) a thick clay layer ranging in thickness from 25-60 metres separates the top unconfined aquifer from the confined aquifer.
Fact	The mines inspected by <ORG> were below 150 feet (45 metres) and on checking it was found that most mines were further operating at 20-100 feet (6-30 metres) below water levels.
Fact	This means that the mines are abstracting water from the confined aquifer.
Fact	As annual rainfall mostly replenishes the unconfined or top aquifer levels, the mining activity is destroying a non-renewable resource.
Fact	<ORG> saw deep and extensive pits of mines with vast waterbodies ?
Fact	stretching at times to a kilometer and more.
Fact	<ORG> also saw evidence of pumps and pipes being used to drain out the ground water so that mining could continue.
Argument	Therefore, the miners are mining for silica, but also in the process mining and destroying the ground water reserves of the areas.
Argument	The NOC given by <ORG> includes an explicit condition regarding g round water : "That the mine owner will ensure that there is no discharge of effluent or ground water outside lease premises.
Argument	They must take measures for rain water harvesting and reuse of water so as not to affect the ground water table in the areas.
Argument	Most importantly, it stipulates that there should be no mining operations shall be carried out in the water table area."
Argument	The report of <ORG> states very categorically that the ground water table is already at a critical stage in Faridabad.
Argument	It states, `The stage of ground water development of Faridabad block is 89.02 percent in dark category and no further abstraction of ground water should be carried out to avoid any adverse environment impact on ground water regimes.
Argument	Thus no additional tube wells are advisable to be constructed for community water supply scheme even though they may not affect the storage in Badkhal lake.'
Argument	The report further states that `The domestic water supply to Faridabad town has to be catered and there are no surf ace water source which can be tapped.'
Fact	<ORG> further observes that most of the mining is happening inside the municipal area of Faridabad.
Fact	In fact, <ORG> states in the letter dated October 12, 2002, `it is submitted that the mineral rights of the mines vests with <ORG>....The surface rights of villages Badkhal, Pali, Gothra, Mohabtabad, Anangpur, Mewla Maharajpur are with municipal corporation, Faridabad, and <ORG> are with gram panchayat.'
Fact	Sensitivity of this region is further accentuated by its close proximity to the reserved forests of Asola sanctuary located at the border of Delhi and Haryana and other ecologically sensitive areas like Surajkund and Badkhal lake.
Fact	Even in Gurgaon, the <ORG> report indicates that the ground water scenario is grim.
Fact	According to <ORG>, the `ground water development of Guirgaon block is 124 per cent, indicating that the entire block in which Gurgaon town is situated is over exploited.'
Fact	The ground water levels are also fal ling dangerously according to the report of <ORG> which recommends strict regulatory measures for ground water use.
Fact	The <ORG>, while reaffirming the recommendations that had been made in its earlier report dated 9th August, 2002, made the following recommendations :  "The overall assessment of the environmental impact of the mining activities in the area especially its implication for ground water level in the region reaffirms <ORG>'s assessment presented in its earlier report.
Fact	<ORG> upholds its earlier recommendations made vide the report submitted to <ORG> on August 9, 2002.
Fact	<ORG> is concerned that if mining is allowed to continue in this area, it will have serious implications for the groundwater reserve which is the only source of drinking water in the area.
Fact	<ORG> has also noticed uncontrolled construction activities that will expand urban habitation considerably in future.
Fact	Unless immediate measures are taken to conserve and augment water resources in the area acute survival crisis is expec ted.
Fact	Interviews with local villagers in the vicinity of mines confirm that water shortage is already a serious problem in the region.
Fact	The extent of degradation in and around mines is the evidence of failure to enforce basic rules for ecological safeguards.
Fact	Recent attempts at planting trees are cosmetic.
Fact	Exposed ground water lakes observed in mining sites only reconfirms the worst fears.
Fact	If mining could not be stopped in so many pits even after reaching groundwater level there is no guarantee that even some of those mines still at the surface level will abide by the stipulated norms when they reach the water table."
Fact	Submissions for Confirming or varying Order dated 6th May, 2002 Having regard to the ground realities as reflected in the aforesaid reports, should the order passed on 6th May, 2002 be varied is the question?
RulingByLowerCourt	The continuance of the order has been strenuously objected to by the mining lease holders and also by <ORG>.
Argument	Various applications have been filed seeking vacation of the o rder and in support thereof, submissions have been made mainly by Mr. <NAME>, Dr. <NAME>, Mr. <NAME>, Mr. <NAME> and Mr. <NAME> representing the lease holders and Mr. <NAME>, learned Additional Solicitor General representing <ORG>.
Argument	We have also heard Mr. <NAME> and Mr.<NAME>, learned Additional Solicitor Generals for <ORG>, <ORG>, Mr. <NAME> and Mr. <NAME> (in support of IA No.1825/2002 filed by the villagers).
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned <ORG> and Mr. <NAME>, Advocate/petitioner-in- person and Mr. <NAME> for <ORG> have made submissions in support of closure of mining activity and for making the order dated 6th May, 2002 absolute by prohibiting all mining activities and pumping of ground water in and from an area upto 5 kms.
Fact	from Delhi- Haryana Border in the Haryana side of the Ridge and also in the Aravalli Hills.
Fact	Notifications Regarding Mining on A ravalli Hills The notification dated 7th May, 1992 issued by <ORG>, Government of India under Section 3(2)(v) of the EP Act read with Rule 5 of the Rules made under the said Act has considerable bearing on the aspect of mining in Aravalli Hills.
Fact	The notification, inter alia, bans all new mining operations including renewals of mining leases and sets out the procedure for taking prior permission before undertaking such an activity.
Fact	The notification, in so far as material for the present purposes, reads :  "S.O.319(E) - Whereas a Notification under Section 3(1) and Section 3(2) (v) of the Environment (Protection) Act , 1986  inviting objections against restricting certain activities in specified area of Aravalli Range which are causing Environmental Degradation in the Region was published in <ORG> Part II- Section 3 sub-section (ii) vide S.O.
Fact	25 (E) dated 9th January 1992;  And whereas all objections received have been duly considered by <ORG>; No w, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) and clause (v) of sub- section (2), of Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 , read with rule 5 of the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986 <ORG> hereby prohibits the carrying on the following process and operations, except with its prior permission, in the areas specified in the Table appended to this Notification :  (i) ......  (ii) (a) All new mining operations including renewals of mining leases  (b) Existing mining leases in sanctuaries/national Park and areas covered under Project Tiger and/or  (c) Mining is being done without permission of the competent authority  (iii) Cutting of trees;  (iv) Construction of any clusters of dwelling units, farmhouses, sheds, community centers, information centers and any other activity connected with such construction (including roads a part of any infrastructure relating thereto);  (v) ......  2.
Fact	Any person who desires to undertake any of the above mentioned processes  or operations in the said areas, shall submit an application to the Secretary, <ORG>, New Delhi, in the attached application form (annexure) specifying, inter alia, details of the area and proposed process or operation.
Fact	He shall also furnish an Environment Impact Statement and an Environmental Management Plan along with the application and such other information as may be required by <ORG> for considering the application.
Fact	(3) <ORG> in the <ORG> shall, having regard to the guidelines issued by it from time to time for giving effect to the provisions of the said Act, grant permission within a period of three months from the date of receipt of the application or where further information has been asked for from the applicant, within a period of three months from the date of the receipt of such information, or refuse permission within the said time on the basis of the impact of the proposed process or operation on the e nvironment in the said area.
Fact	4.
Fact	For seeking permission under this Notification, an application in the prescribed form (see Annexure), duly filled in, may be submitted to the Secretary, ministry of Environment and Forests, Paryavaran Bhavan, CGO Complex, Lodi Road, New Delhi.
Fact	XXX XXXX XXXX  3.
Fact	(b)(ii) Erodability classification of the proposed land.
Fact	5.
Fact	(a) Water balance at site surface and ground water availability and demand.
Fact	XXX XXXX XXXX  12.
Fact	(a) Environmental Impact Assessment Report:  (b) Environmental Management Plan : prepared as per Guidelines of MEF issued from time to time.
Fact	(c) Detailed Feasibility Report.
Fact	(d) Proposal for diversion of forest land under Forest (Conservation) Act , 1980 including benefit cost analysis.
Fact	13.
Fact	Recommendations of <ORG> and/or <ORG>."
Fact	The aforesaid notification, restricting mining activities in Aravalli range is relevant for mining operation in Gurgaon district wherein part of Aravalli hills range ex ist.
Fact	The powers vested in <ORG> in terms of the aforesaid notification dated 7th May, 1992 were delegated to the State Governments concerned, namely, Rajasthan and Haryana by issue of notification dated November 29, 1999 by <ORG>, <ORG>.
Fact	The said notification reads thus : MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND FORESTS NOTIFICATION New Delhi, the 29th November, 1999 S.O.1189(E).-In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 , (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), read with sub-rule (4) of rule 5 of the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, <ORG> hereby delegates the powers conferred on it to take measures for protecting and improving the quality of the environment and preventing, controlling and abating environmental pollution, to be exercised also by the State Governments as notified in the Notification of <ORG> in the <ORG>s S.O.
Fact	NO.319(E) dat ed 7th May, 1992 subject to certain conditions which are as follows :  (i) the State Governments concerned, namely, Haryana and Rajasthan shall constitute <ORG> for each state as per the composition given in the Schedule-I annexed to this Notification;  (ii) each State Government shall also constitute a Monitoring Committee, under the chairmanship of the District Collector concerned (Gurgaon in Haryana and Alwar in Rajasthan) as given in the Schedule-II annexed to this Notification which shall inter alia monitor the compliance of the conditions stipulated while according environmental clearance by such State Governments and report to such State Government about the violations, if any, and the action taken thereon;  (iii) The District Collectors of Gurgaon in Haryana and Alwar in Rajasthan shall be authorised by the respective State Governments to take necessary action under section 5 of the said Act in respect of cases where the project proponents fail to implement the conditions.
Fact	2.
Fact	The State  Government concerned shall initiate steps to prepare a Master Plan for the development of the area covered by the Notification S.O.
Fact	319(E) dated 7th May, 1992 integrating environmental concerns and keeping in view the future land use of the area.
Fact	This Master Plan shall be prepared by the concerned state agency, approved by the competent authority and finally published within two years from the date of issue of this Notification, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Town and Country Planning Act or any other similar Act of the respective State Government.
Fact	The State Government concerned shall implement the Master Plan forthwith after its final publication.
Fact	3.
Fact	Any person desirous of undertaking any of the activities mentioned in the Notification No.319(E) dated 7th May, 1992 shall submit an application to the Secretary, <ORG> of the Government of Haryana/Rajasthan, as the case may be.
Fact	The applicant shall also furnish environment impact statement and an environment management pla n and such other information as may be prescribed by such State Governments.
Fact	The application after due scrutiny shall be placed before <ORG> for its recommendations.
Fact	Based on the recommendations of <ORG>, <ORG> in the State Government concerned shall take a final decision and convey the same to the applicant within three months from the date of receipt of application or when further information has been asked for from the applicant within three months from the date of receipt of such information.
Fact	4.
Fact	<ORG> retains appellate power against rejection of any proposal and <ORG> constituted under the National Environment Appellate Authority Act , 1997  shall continue as an Appellate Authority against approval."
Fact	Schedule I and II of the notification sets out the composition of <ORG> and of <ORG>.
Fact	Some controversy and confusion in respect of constitution o f committees insofar as it relates to appointment of an expert from non-government organization, was brought to our notice but the delegation in favour of <ORG> having been withdrawn now, it is not necessary to examine this aspect.
Fact	<ORG>, in terms of notification dated 28th February, 2003, has withdrawn the delegation in favour of <ORG>.
Fact	Notification of 27th January, 1994 Regarding Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Another notification which is of considerable importance on aspect of mining is dated 27th January, 1994, as amended on 4th May, 1994.
Statute	The notification has been issued by <ORG>, Government of India, in exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) and clause (5) of sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the EP Act read with clause (d) of sub-rule (3) of Rule 6 of the EP Rules stipulating that expansion or modernization of any activity (if the pollution load is to exceed the existing one) or a new project listed in Schedule I of the  notification shall not be undertaken in any part of India unless it has been accorded environmental clearance by <ORG> in accordance with the procedure specified in the notification.
Statute	The issue in these matters is about the interpretation of the notification, its applicability also to mining leases granted earlier to the issue of the notification i.e.
Statute	at the time of the renewal of such mining lease.
Statute	The notification dated 27th January, 1994, to the extent material for the present purpose, reads as under :  "S.O.60(E) Whereas a notification under clause  (a) of sub-rule (3) of rule 5 of the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986 inviting objections from the public within sixty days from the date of publication of the said notification, against the intention of <ORG> to impose restrictions and prohibitions on the expansion and modernization of any activity or new projects being undertaken in any part of India unless environmental clearance has been accorded by <ORG> nt or <ORG> in accordance with the procedure specified in that notification was published as S.O.
Statute	No.80(E) dated 28th January, 1993:  And whereas all objections received have been duly considered;  Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) and clause (v) of sub- section (2) of section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986  read with clause (d) of sub-rule (3) of rule 5 of the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, <ORG> hereby directs that on and from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette expansion or modernization of any activity (if pollution load is to exceed the existing one) or a new project listed in Schedule I of this notification shall not be undertaken in any part of India unless it has been accorded environmental clearance by <ORG> in accordance with the procedure hereinafter specified in this notification.
Fact	2.
Fact	Requirements and procedure for seeking environmental clearance of projects:   1.
Statute	(a) Any person who desires to undertake any new project or the expansion or modernization of any existing industry or project listed in Schedule I shall submit an application to the Secretary, <ORG>, New Delhi.
Statute	The application shall be made in the proforma specified in Schedule II of this notification and shall be accompanied by a project report which shall, inter alia, include an Environmental Impact Assessment Report/Environment Management Plan prepared in accordance with the guidelines issued by <ORG> in the <ORG> from time to time.
Fact	(b) Cases rejected due to submission of insufficient or inadequate data and plans may be reviewed as and when submitted with complete data and plans.
Fact	Submission of incomplete data or plans for the second time would itself be a sufficient reason for <ORG> to reject the case summarily.
Fact	II.
Fact	In case of the following site specific projects:  (a) mining;  (b) to (d) ...  (e) prosp ecting and exploration of major minerals in areas above 500 ha., The project authorities will intimate the location of the project site to <ORG> in <ORG> while initiating any investigation and surveys.
Fact	<ORG> in <ORG> will convey a decision regarding suitability or otherwise of the proposed site within a maximum period of thirty days.
RulingByPresentCourt	The said site clearance shall be granted for a sanctioned capacity and shall be valid for a period of five years for commencing the construction, operation or mining.
RulingByPresentCourt	III.
RulingByPresentCourt	(a) The reports submitted with the application shall be evaluated and assessed by <ORG>, and if deemed necessary it may consult <ORG>, having a composition as specified in Schedule-III of this Notification.
RulingByPresentCourt	<ORG> (<ORG>) would be <ORG>.
RulingByPresentCourt	<ORG> mentioned above shall be constituted by the <ORG> or  such other body under <ORG> authorised by the <ORG> in this regard.
RulingByPresentCourt	(b) The said <ORG> shall have full right of entry and inspection of the site or, as the case may be, factory premises at any time prior to, during or after the commencement of the operations relating to the project.
RulingByPresentCourt	(c) <ORG> shall prepare a set of recommendations based on technical assessment of documents and data, furnished by the project authorities, supplemented by data collected during visits to sites or factories, if undertaken, and interaction with affected population and environmental groups, if necessary.
RulingByPresentCourt	Summary of the reports, the recommendation and the conditions, subject to which environmental clearance is given, shall be made available subject to the public interest to the concerned parties or environmental groups on request.
Fact	Comments of the public may be solicited, if so decided by <ORG>, within thirty days of receipt of proposal, in public hearings arr anged for the purpose after giving thirty days notice of such hearings in at least two newspapers.
Fact	Public shall be provided access, subject to the public interest, to the summary of the reports/Environmental Management Plans at the Headquarters of <ORG>.
RulingByPresentCourt	The assessment shall be completed within a period of ninety days from receipt of the requisite documents and data from the project authorities and completion of public hearing where required, and decision conveyed within thirty days thereafter.
RulingByPresentCourt	The clearance granted shall be valid for a period of five years for commencement of the construction or operation.
Fact	No construction work preliminary or otherwise, relating to the setting up of the project may be undertaken till the environmental and/or site clearance is obtained.
Fact	IV.
Fact	In order to enable <ORG> to monitor effectively the implementation of the recommendations and conditions subject to which the environmental clearance has been given the project authorities c oncerned shall submit a half-yearly report to <ORG>.
Fact	Subject to the public interest, <ORG>, shall make compliance reports publicly available.
Fact	V. If no comments from <ORG> are received within the time limit, the project would be deemed to have been approved as proposed by project authorities.
Fact	3.
Fact	Nothing contained in this Notification shall apply to :  (a) any item falling under entry nos.3, 18 and 20 of the Schedule I to be located or proposed to be located in the areas covered by the Notifications S.O.
Fact	No.102(E) dated 1st February, 1989; S.O.
Fact	114(E) dated 20th February, 1991, S.O.
Fact	No.416(E) dated 20th June, 1991 and S.O.
Fact	No.319(E) dated 7th May, 1992.
Fact	(b) any item falling under entry Nos.1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 21, 25 and 27 of Schedule-I if the investment is less than Rs.50 crores.
Fact	(c) any item reserved for Small Scale Industrial sector with investments less than Rs.1 crore.
Fact	4.
Fact	Concealing factual data or submiss ion of false, misleading data/reports, decisions or recommendations would lead to the project being rejected.
Fact	Approval, if granted earlier on the basis of false data would also be to be revoked.
Fact	Misleading and wrong information will cover the following :  -- False information;  -- False data.
Fact	-- Engineered reports.
Fact	-- Concealing of factual data.
Fact	-- False recommendations of decisions.
Fact	SCHEDULE-I (See paras 1 and 2) LIST OF PROJECTS REQUIRING ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCE FROM THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT.
Fact	1.
Fact	Nuclear Power and related projects such as Heavy Water Plants, nuclear fuel complex, rare earths.
Fact	2 to 19 ...  20.
Fact	Mining projects (major minerals) with leases more than 5 hectares.
Fact	21 to 29 ...  XXX XXXX XXXX SCHEDULE III (See sub-para III(a) of Para 2) COMPOSITION OF THE EXPERT COMMITTEES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT  1.
Fact	The Committee will consist of experts in the following disciplines :  (i) Eco-System Management  (ii) Air/Water Pollution Control  (iii) Water Resource Management  (iv) Flora/Fauna Con servation and Management  (v) Land Use Planning  (vi) Social Sciences/Rehabilitation  (vii) Project Appraisal  (viii) Ecology  (ix) Environmental Health  (x) Subject Area Specialists.
Fact	(xi) Representatives of <ORG>.
Fact	2.
Fact	The Chairman will be an outstanding and experienced ecologist or environmentalist or technical professional with wide managerial experience.
Fact	3.
Fact	The representative of <ORG> will act as Member-Secretary  4.
Fact	Chairman and members will serve in their individual capacities except those specifically nominated as representatives.
Fact	5.
Fact	The membership of a <ORG> shall not exceed 15.
Fact	EXPLANATORY NOTE REGARDING THE IMPACT ASSESSMENT NOTIFICATION DATED 27TH JANUARY, 1994 1 to 3.
Fact	...  4.
Fact	Public Hearing Public hearings could be called for in case of projects involving large displacement or having severe environmental ramifications.
Fact	5 to 7.
Fact	...  8.
Fact	Exemption for projects already initiated For projects listed in Schedule-I to the notification in respect of which th e required land has been acquired and all relevant clearances of <ORG> including NOC from the respective <ORG> have been obtained before 27th January, 1994, a project proponent will not be required to seek environmental clearance from the <ORG>.
Fact	However, those units who have not as yet commenced production will inform the <ORG>."
Fact	Reference may also be made to a notification issued by <ORG> on November 28, 2001 with a view to enforce the recommendations of NEERI contained in para 6.1 of its report so far as mining operations in the State of Haryana are concerned.
Fact	In terms of the notification, <ORG> and <ORG> were directed to impose the conditions mentioned in the notification while according environmental clearance.
Fact	This notification, it seems, was issued in the purported attempt to comply with the directions of this <ORG> as contained in the order dated 10th May, 1996 as reported in <NAME> case (supra).
Fact	We may a lso refer to the circular dated May 14, 2002 issued by <ORG> noticing that in the past several units had come up in violation of the notification dated 27th January, 1994 and a view had been taken earlier that such units are permitted to apply for environment clearance by 31st March, 1999.
Fact	For period of five years, there was no circular or notification granting any time to apply for EIA under notification dated 27th January, 1994.
Fact	The period to apply for environment clearance was extended upto 30th June, 2001 which deadline was extended upto 31st March, 2003, stating that it was to give opportunity to defaulting units to avail of the last and final opportunity to obtain ex post facto environment clearance.
RulingByLowerCourt	The notification dated 27th January, 1994 is applicable also to construction activity.
RulingByLowerCourt	It seems that this circular was issued to give opportunity to those who had undertaken constructions after issue of notification without compliance of stipulations therein.
RulingByLowerCourt	We are, however , not concerned in these matters with the construction which may have come up in breach of the notification.
RulingByLowerCourt	It does not appear that <ORG> intended to legalise the commencement or continuance of mining activity without compliance of stipulations of the notification.
RulingByLowerCourt	In any case, a statutory notification cannot be notified by issue of circular.
RulingByLowerCourt	Further, if <ORG> intended to apply this circular also to mining activity commenced and continued in violation of this notification, it would also show total non- sensitivity of <ORG> to the principles of sustainable development and the object behind the issue of notification.
RulingByLowerCourt	The circular has no applicability to the mining activity.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> (<ORG>) - Its Suggestions The notification dated 27th January, 1994 is mandatory.
RulingByLowerCourt	The compliance of the notification before commencement of any mining operation is essential and cannot be dispensed with.
Fact	The <ORG> has not so far conducted Environment Impact Assessment in respect of any of the mining lease under the no tification dated 27th January, 1994.
Fact	Before the order dated 6th May, 2002 was passed, the lease holders had not made any application before the Ministry for grant of <ORG>.
Fact	The applications were filed during the pendency of these matters under the order of this Court.
Fact	The <ORG> applications of the lease holders are lying with <ORG>.
Fact	<ORG> was constituted in terms of notification dated 17th September, 2002, issued by <ORG>, <ORG> in exercise of power conferred by Section 3(3) of the EP Act for the purposes of monitoring and ensuring compliance of the order of this Court covering the subject matter of forest and wildlife and related issues arising out of the said order and one of the functions of the <ORG> in terms of the notification is to monitor the implementation of the orders of this Court and place reports of non-compliance before the Court including in respect of encroachment and removals, working plans, compensatory afforestation, plantations and other conserva tion issues.
Fact	In the order dated 31st October, 2002, this <ORG> has observed that no mining activity can be carried out without remedial measures taking place and for this purpose, it is necessary that environment impact assessment is done and the applications dealt with before any mining activity can be permitted.
Fact	It was also observed that the application of lease holders for environmental clearance can be disposed of them of within a period to be specified by this <ORG>.
Fact	In terms of order dated 25th November, 2002, <ORG> was asked to file its suggestions in regard to the time for considering the applications for grant of <ORG>.
Fact	The <ORG> had received large number of voluminous Environment Impact Assessment plans only in the last few days which are being examined further stating that the process of examination and formulation of suggestions is likely to take some more time.
Fact	On 24th January, 2003, the <ORG> was granted time to file its report upto 8th February, 2003.
Fact	<ORG> has filed three rep orts, the last having been filed on 7th February, 2003.
Fact	In an interim report dated 22nd June, 2003 <ORG> stated that the complete information had not been supplied to it by the <ORG> of Haryana.
Fact	The report states that as per the information provided by the Haryana <ORG>, in Faridabad district there are 21 sanctioned major mineral mines with the varying size from 44.48 hectare to 516.518 hectare.
Fact	In Gurgaon districts 54 mining leases have been sanctioned varying in size from 5.96 hectare to 802.322 hectare.
Fact	All the mines of major minerals were operating in Faridabad district without obtaining statutory environmental clearance under the EP Act.
Fact	It also noticed that in respect of the Aravalli Hills range being an acknowledged as eco friendly area under the Aravalli notification, clearances were being granted on the basis of examination of an expert group without any public hearing or participation of <ORG> or the affected people.
Fact	As already noticed, the delegation in favour of the <ORG> has been now withdrawn.
Fact	The  report further observes that most of the mines are operating in violation of approved plans.
Argument	Instead of doing section wise mining (bench mining) the mining operations are carried on unscientifically with the sole aim to make maximum profits which has resulted in number of fatal accidents involving labourers, hazards to the adjoining population, indiscriminate scattering of the over burden, wasteful manner of mining with complete disregard to mineral conservation aspect, rendering reclamation of mined area impossible.
Argument	Further it points out that several mining leases have been granted in areas where plantations were undertaken with the financial assistance provided by international donor agencies.
Argument	Mining activities are permitted in a manner which is destroying the ground water table and also the deep aquifers thereby causing irreparable damage to the critical ground water reserves.
Argument	There is no effective mechanism to ensure compliance of various conditions stipulated while granting statutory approvals.
Fact	No deter rent action was taken against mines even in those cases where during monitoring serious violations and non compliance of conditions were found.
Fact	The <ORG> has made the following suggestions :  "I) For major mineral mines above 5 hectare in Faridabad district, mining activity may be allowed to be undertaken only after the required environmental clearances are accorded by <ORG> (<ORG>);  ii) the powers delegated to <ORG> by notification dated 27.1.1997 to grant environmental clearances in respect of areas of Gurgaon district falling within Aravalli notification dated 7.5.1992 requires to be reconsidered as the presumptions on the basis of which powers were delegated to <ORG> have been found to be incorrect;  iii) mining activity may be allowed in respect of areas notified under Section 4 and 5 of the PLP Act, which for the purpose of FC Act are `forest' even as per <ORG> records, only after obtaining prior approval under the said Act from  the <ORG>;  iv) all mining leases granted in respect of areas where plantations have been raised under the financial assistance received from any international donor agencies may be cancelled forthwith.
Fact	The concerned authorities may be prohibited from allowing any mining operations, allowing renewals or grants of fresh leases in such areas;  v) mining activity may be allowed only as per the approved <ORG>.
Fact	Mines which are found to be operating at variance with the approved <ORG> may be made liable for cancellation of lease and payment of exemplary compensation;  vi) in view of rampant and indiscriminate mining, which was being done, a high level monitoring committee may be constituted comprising representatives of the State Government, <ORG>, <ORG>, <ORG> and reputed <ORG>.
Fact	This Committee may be empowered to monitor the implementation of the conditions imposed while approving <ORG>, grants of environmental clearances and other approvals/clearances.
Fact	Whenever any violation is detected, the <ORG> should have the powers to direct closure of the defaulting mines and also to impose fines commensurate with the seriousness of the violation;  vii) in addition to the above (vi), the Officials of <ORG>, <ORG>, <ORG>, Director General of Mine Safety may independently monitor, at least once in three months, to ensure compliance of all statutory conditions;  viii) <ORG> may identify and notify officials, who would ensure enforcement of the directions given by the Monitoring <ORG> and or the above mentioned officials;  ix) no mining activity may be allowed without obtaining `No Objection Certificate' from <ORG> to ensure that the water table and the underground aquifers are not adversely affected;  x) before allowing resumption of mining activity in any approved mining lease, the status of compliance of the conditions of the approved Mining Plans, approved Environmental Management Plans, en vironmental clearances and other statutory conditions/clearances may be ascertained.
Fact	Suitable and adequate compensation/penalty for non-compliance of stipulations may be recovered, otherwise such stipulations would remain only on paper;  xi) in respect of forest area, including areas notified under Section 4 and 5 , net present value of the land leased out for mining may be recovered as per the <ORG> order dated 30.10.2002 in I.A.
Fact	No.566 in Writ Petition (Civil) No.202/95 (forest matter);  xii) a suitable system of securing adequate bank guarantee, bank deposit or other personal guarantee from the mine owner may be worked out to ensure compliance of all statutory and other conditions;  xiii) after considering the annual approved rate of mining and mineral deposits in the area, optimum size of the mines may be determined in respect of approved mines to ensure optimum utilization of the mineral resources;  xiv) presently, the over burden is not stacked as per approved Minining Plan, which makes  it practically impossible to carry out any reclamation work.
Fact	The over burden dumping may be allowed only at identified sites within the mining lease area as per approved Mining Plans;  xv) for the purpose of afforestation, the funds may be recovered from the mine owners and deposited with <ORG> for undertaking afforestation in a planned manner;  xvi) the identification of the consultants for preparation of the EIA's should be done by the regulating agency instead of by the mine owners to ensure good and credible reports.
Fact	It is important that payment to the consultants should also be routed through the regulating agency and not directly by the mine owners."
Fact	The report of <ORG> dated 7th February, 2003 mentions that <ORG>, despite letters, had not made available to the <ORG> the following information :  i) mine wise details of stipulated conditions, which have been fulfilled and those which have not been fulfilled  ii) details of five major mineral mines in Faridabad and Gurgao n Districts which have fulfilled all the conditions stated in the approved mining plans, environmental and other clearances;  iii) details of the mines where mining activity has been undertaken without obtaining requisite environmental clearance.
Fact	In the absence of the information as aforesaid the <ORG> gave its suggestions on the basis of information available to it which are as under:  i) the ban on mining activity may continue up to 2 km from Surajkund and Badkal Lakes, as per <ORG> order dated 10.5.1996;  (ii) each of the existing mines may be physically inspected by Inspection Team(s) comprising officials of <ORG>, <ORG>, Director General of Mines Safety and <ORG> to report the specific conditions which have not been fulfilled/violated especially in respect of : a. sectionwise (benchwise) mining to be done as per approved mining plan;  b. storage of top soil as per approved mining plan;  c. dumping of over-burden in identified a rea as per the approval mining plan;  d. plantations as per Environmental Management Plan;  e. observance of mines safety Rules and Regulations;  f. damage to the plantations raised under externally aided projects (foreign funding);  g. damage if any to the water table/underground acquifers; and h. compliance of environmental clearance stipulations;  The Inspection Team(s) may submit the reports to <ORG> and <ORG> (<ORG>) with copies to <ORG> (<ORG>) for their comments and for carrying out verification, if found necessary.
Fact	(iii) suitable penalties for non-  compliance/violation of various conditions, as found by the above Inspection Team(s) or by the <ORG> may be imposed.
Fact	Norms for quantifying the penalties for violation of various conditions may be formulated by <ORG> with the concurrence of the <ORG>.
Fact	No mine may be allowed to resume mining activity without first paying the penalty imposed on it.
Fact	(iv) mining activity may compl etely be prohibited in area where plantations have been undertaken with the foreign assistance/funding (externally aided projects).
Fact	Mining leases already granted/approved in all such areas may be cancelled;  (v) yearwise requirement of funds for implementation of various conditions under which mining has been approved may be computed for each mine.
Fact	To ensure compliance of these conditions, adequate safeguards by way of bank guarantee, mortgage of immovable assets, pledge of movable assets, personnel guarantee of the lessee or others (supported by adequate assets) may be put in place;  (vi) <ORG> may examine the Environment Impact Assessment Report/Environment Management Plan of individual major mineral mines and proposals for approval under the FC Act, if the mining lease is in 'forest' as per the <ORG> order dated 12.12.1996 in Writ Petition (C) No.206/95, and take decision(s) thereon, including regarding measures for protecting the water table and underground acquifers, in a time bound <NAME> r; and  (vii) regular inspection of the mines may be undertaken by the identified officials of <ORG>, <ORG> and <ORG>.
Fact	Mines which are found to have violated the conditions may be made liable to pay stiff penalties including closure of the mines."
Fact	Some mining leases were granted prior to notification dated 27th January, 1994 and some after the issue of that notification.
Fact	Even in respect of the leases granted prior to 27th January, 1994, the renewal of most of the leases has come up after issue of notification.
Fact	Some of the leases are for extraction of major mineral, some for extraction of minor mineral and some for extraction of both major and minor mineral.
Fact	In respect of none of the leases, before commencement of mining activity, <ORG> was obtained from the <ORG>.
Fact	In respect of mining in Aravalli Hills in Gurgaon, the relevant notifications dated 7th May, 1992, 29th November, 1999 and 28th January, 2003 have been noticed earlier.
Fact	Under the notification  dated 7th May, 1992, no permission was granted by the <ORG> though some applications were pending before it when power was delegated to <ORG>.
Fact	Permissions were granted by <ORG> after the powers were delegated to it.
Fact	The delegation in favour of the <ORG> has since been withdrawn.
Fact	Legal Parameters The natural sources of air, water and soil cannot be utilized if the utilization results in irreversible damage to environments.
Fact	There has been accelerated degradation of environment primarily on account of lack of effective enforcement of environmental laws and non-compliance of the statutory norms.
Fact	This Court has repeatedly said that the right to live is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution and it includes the right to of enjoyment of pollution-free water and air for full enjoyment of life.
Fact	( <CITATION_1646284> [AIR 1991 SC 420].
Fact	Further, by 42nd Constitutional Amendment, Article 48-A was inserted in the Constitution in Part IV stipulating that the <ORG> shall endeav our to protect and improve the environment and to safeguard the forest and wildlife of the country.
Fact	Article 51A , inter alia, provides that it shall be the duty of every citizen of India to protect and improve the natural environment including forest, lakes, rivers and wildlife and to have compassion for living creatures.
Fact	Article 47 which provides that it shall be the duty of the <ORG> to raise the level of nutrition and the standard of living and to improve public health is also relevant in this connection.
Fact	The most vital necessities, namely, air, water and soil, having regard to right of life under Article 21 cannot be permitted to be misused and polluted so as to reduce the quality of life of others.
Fact	Having regard to the right of the community at large it is permissible to encourage the participation of Amicus Curiae, the appointment of experts and the appointments of monitory committees.
Fact	The approach of the <ORG> has to be liberal towards ensuring social justice and protection of human rights.
Fact	<CITATION_1 964392> [], this <ORG> held that life, public health and ecology has priority over unemployment and loss of revenue.
Fact	The definition of 'sustainable development' which <NAME> gave more than 3 decades back still holds good.
Fact	The phrase covers the development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of the future generation to meet their own needs.
Fact	<CITATION_1938608> .
Fact	[], this <ORG> observed that sustainable development means the type or extent of development that can take place and which can be sustained by nature/ecology with or without mitigation.
Fact	In these matters, the required standard now is that the risk of harm to the environment or to human health is to be decided in public interest, according to a "reasonable person's " test.
Fact	[See Chairman <NAME> : The Status of the Precautionary Principle in Australia : (Vol.
Fact	22) (1998) (<ORG>, p. 509 at p.549-A) as in <CITATION_764031> .
Fact	[].
Fact	The mining operation is hazardous in nature.
Fact	It impairs ecology and people's  right of natural resources.
RatioOfTheDecision	The entire process of setting up and functioning of mining operation require utmost good faith and honesty on the part of the intending entrepreneur.
RatioOfTheDecision	For carrying on any mining activity close to township which has tendency to degrade environment and are likely to effect air, water and soil and impair the quality of life of inhabitants of the area, there would be greater responsibility on the part of the entrepreneur.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fullest disclosures including the potential for increased burdens on the environment consequent upon possible increase in the quantum and degree of pollution, has to be made at the outset so that public and all those concerned including authorities may decide whether the permission can at all be granted for carrying on mining activity.
RatioOfTheDecision	The regulatory authorities have to act with utmost care in ensuring compliance of safeguards, norms and standards to be observed by such entrepreneurs.
RatioOfTheDecision	When questioned, the regulatory authorities have to show that the said authoritie s acted in the manner enjoined upon them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Where the regulatory authorities, either connive or act negligently by not taking prompt action to prevent, avoid or control the damage to environment, natural resources and peoples' life, health and property, the principles of accountability for restoration and compensation have to be applied.
RatioOfTheDecision	The development and the protection of environments are not enemies.
RatioOfTheDecision	If without degrading the environment or minimising adverse effects thereupon by applying stringent safeguards, it is possible to carry on development activity applying the principles of sustainable development, in that eventuality, the development has to go on because one cannot lose sight of the need for development of industries, irrigation resources and power projects etc.
Fact	including the need to improve employment opportunities and the generation of revenue.
Fact	A balance has to be struck.
Fact	We may note that to stall fast the depletion of forest, series of orders have been passed by this <ORG> in <NAME>  case regulating the felling of trees in all the forests in the country.
Fact	Principle 15 of Rio Conference of 1992 relating to the applicability of precautionary principle which stipulates that where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for proposing effective measures to prevent environmental degradation is also required to be kept in view.
Fact	In such matters, many a times, the option to be adopted is not very easy or in a straight jacket.
RatioOfTheDecision	If an activity is allowed to go ahead, there may be irreparable damage to the environment and if it is stopped, there may be irreparable damage to economic interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	In case of doubt, however, protection of environment would have precedence over the economic interest.
RatioOfTheDecision	Precautionary principle requires anticipatory action to be taken to prevent harm.
RatioOfTheDecision	The harm can be prevented even on a reasonable suspicion.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not always necessary that there should be direct evidence of harm to the environment.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> ng in mind the aforesaid principles, we have to consider the main question: should the mining activity in areas in question be banned altogether or permitted and, if so, conditions to be provided therefor?
RatioOfTheDecision	The reports and suggestions of <ORG>, <ORG> and <ORG> have already been extensively noted.
RulingByLowerCourt	The effect of mining activity in area upto 5 km.
RulingByLowerCourt	from Delhi-Haryana border on Haryana side of the ridge and also in the Aravalli Hills is to be seen in light of these reports and another report dealt later.
RulingByLowerCourt	One of the aspect stated in these reports is about carrying on of mining activity in close proximity to the residential area and/or main roads carrying traffic.
RulingByLowerCourt	Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act and Rules thereunder The grant of mining lease is governed by the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act , 1957 (for short, 'the MMRD Act) which was enacted to provide for the development and regulation of mines and minerals under the control of the <ORG>.
Statute	Section 13 is the rule making power of  <ORG>.
Statute	<ORG> is empowered to make rules to provide for the manner in which rehabilitation of flora and other vegetation, such as trees, shrubs and the like destroyed by reason of any mining operation shall be made in the same area or in any other area selected by <ORG> (whether by way of reimbursement of the cost of rehabilitation or otherwise) by the person holding the mining lease.
Statute	Section 18 , inter alia, casts a duty upon <ORG> to take all such steps as may be necessary for the conservation and systematic development of minerals in India and for the protection of environment by preventing or controlling any pollution which may be caused by mining operations and for such purposes, <ORG> may, by notification in the official gazette, make such rules as it thinks fit.
Statute	The Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 have been framed by <ORG> in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 13 of the MMRD Act.
Statute	Chapter IV of  these Rules relate to grant of mining leases in respect of land in which the minerals vest in the <ORG>.
Statute	Rule 22(4), inter alia, provides that on receipt of the communication from the State <ORG> of the precise areas to be granted for mining purpose, the applicant shall submit a mining plan, within the period stipulated in the Rules, to the Central <ORG> for its approval.
Statute	The applicant, on approval of the mining plan by the Central <ORG>, shall submit the same to the State <ORG> to grant mining lease over that area.
Statute	Rule 4A, inter alia, provides that notwithstanding anything contained in Sub- rule(4), the State <ORG> shall be competent to approve mining plan of open cost mines (mines other than underground mines) in respect of now metallic or industrial minerals, named therein, one of it being Silica sand.
Statute	The mining plan, as provided in sub-rule (5) of Rule 22, shall, inter alia, incorporate the mineral reserves of the area and the plan of area showing, inter alia, water courses , limit of reserves and other forest areas and density of trees, if any, assessment of impact of mining activity on forest, land surface and environment including air and water pollution; details of the scheme of restoration of the area by afforestation, land reclamation, use of pollution control devices and such other measures as may be directed by <ORG> or <ORG> from time to time.
Statute	A tentative scheme of mining and annual programme and plan for excavation from year to year for five years is also required to be incorporated in the mining plan.
Statute	Rule 22(5) was inserted in the Rules by notification dated 27th September, 1994 to which certain amendments were made in terms of notification dated 17th January, 2000 also inserting by same notification Rule 22(4A).
Statute	Sub-rule(4) to Rule 22 ad been earlier inserted by notification dated 27th September, 1994.
RulingByLowerCourt	The grant of permission for mining and approving mining plan and the scheme by <ORG>, <ORG> by itself do es not mean that mining operation can commence.
RulingByLowerCourt	It cannot be accepted that by approving Mining Plan and Scheme by <ORG>, <ORG> is deemed to have approved mining and it can commence forthwith on such approval.
RulingByLowerCourt	Section 13 of the MMRD Act and the Rules made in exercise of powers under the said section, deal, inter alia, with the aspect of grant of mining of lease and not commencement of mining operations.
RulingByLowerCourt	Rules made under Section 18 , however, deal with commencement of mining operations and steps required to be taken for protection of environment by proventing or controlling any pollution which may be caused by mining operation.
RulingByLowerCourt	A mining lease holder is also required to comply with other statutory provisions such as Environment (protection) Act, 1986, Air (Prevention and control of Pollution) Act , 1981, The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act , 1974, Forest (Conservation) Act , 1980.
RulingByLowerCourt	Mere approval of the mining plan by <ORG>, <ORG> would not absolve  the lease holder from complying with the other provisions.
RulingByLowerCourt	Rules 31 to 41 contained in Chapter V of the Mineral Conservation and Development Rules, 1988 framed under Section 18 of the MMRD Act deal with the measures required to be taken by the lessee for the protection of environment from any adverse effect of mining or irreversible consequences thereof.
RulingByLowerCourt	These Rules, inter alia, provide that every holder of a mining lease shall take all possible precautions for the protection of environment and control of pollution while conducting mining operations in the area; shall, wherever top soil exists and is to be excavated for mining operations, remove it separately and utilize for restoration or rehabilitation of the land which is no longer required for mining operations.
RulingByLowerCourt	The holder is also required to take steps so that the overburden, waste rock, rejects and fines generated during prospecting and mining operations or tailings, slims and fines produced during sizing salting and benefication or metallurgical opera tions shall be stored in separate dumps which shall be properly secured to prevent escape of material therefrom in harmful quantities which may cause degradation of environment.
RulingByLowerCourt	Wherever possible, the waste rock, overburden etc.
RulingByLowerCourt	shall be back-filled into the mines excavation with a view to restoring the land for its original use as far as possible and wherever it is not feasible during mining operation, the waste dumps shall be suitably tarraced and stabilized through vegetation or otherwise.
Statute	It is also required that the phased restoration, reclamation and rehabilitation of lands affected by mining operation shall be undertaken which work shall be completed before the conclusion of mining operations and the abandonment of mine.
Statute	Air pollution due to fines, dust and smoke or gaseous emissions during mining operations and related activities shall be controlled and kept within 'permissible limits' specified under various environmental laws of the country including the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act  , 1981 and the Environment (Protection) Act , 1986 by the holder of mining lease.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further, noise arising out of such operations shall be abated or controlled by the lessee at the source so as to keep it within the permissible limit.
RatioOfTheDecision	The mining operations shall be carried out in such a manner so as to cause least damage to the flora of the area and nearby areas.
RatioOfTheDecision	Every holder of mining lease shall take immediate measures for planting in the same area or any other area as selected by the authorized officer and not less than twice the number of trees destroyed by reason of any mining operation and look after them during the subsistence of the licence/lease and restore, to the extent possible, other flora destroyed by mining operations.
RatioOfTheDecision	The aforesaid measures are not required to remain only on paper but strictly complied for the protection of environment and control of pollution as a result and consequence of mining operations.
RatioOfTheDecision	National Forest Policy In respect of mining in the forest area, we may also refer to  the National Forest Policy, 1988 issued by <ORG>, Government of India which, inter alia, notices that over the years, forests in the country have suffered serious depletion.
RatioOfTheDecision	One of the reason of it is inadequacy of protection measure and diversion of forest land to non- forest uses.
RatioOfTheDecision	Without ensuring compensatory afforestation and essential environmental safeguards; and the tendency to look upon forests as revenue earning resource.
RatioOfTheDecision	The basic objectives of the policy, inter alia, are maintenance of environment stability through preservation and, where necessary, restoration of the ecological balance that has been adversely disturbed by serious depletion of the forests of the country and checking the soil erosion and water conservation and increasing substantially the forest/tree cover through massive afforestation and social forestry programmes.
Fact	It provides that the National goal should be to have a minimum of 1/3rd of the total land area of the country under forest or tree cover.
Fact	I n the hills and in mountains regions, the aim should be to maintain 2/3rd of the area under such cover in order to prevent erosion and land degradation and to ensure the stability of the fragile eco-system.
Fact	It also provides that a massive need based and time bound programme of afforestation and tree planting, with particular emphasis on fuel wood and fodder development, on all degraded and denuded lands in the country, whether forest or non-forest land, is a national imperative.
Fact	Mining in Forest Area The question of permitting mining in the area where large scale of afforestation with foreign funding has taken place is required to be examined keeping in view the National Forest Policy which also provides that forest land or land with tree cover should not be treated merely as a resource readily available to be utilized for various projects and programmes but as a national asset which requires to be properly sasfeguarded for providing sustained benefits to the entire community.
RatioOfTheDecision	Diversion of forest land for any  non-forest purpose should be subject to the most careful examinations by specialists from the standpoint of social and environmental costs and benefits.
RatioOfTheDecision	The mining and industrial development should be consistent with the needs for conservation of trees in forest.
RatioOfTheDecision	It provides that no mining should be granted to any party, private or public, without a proper mine management plan appraised from the environmental angle and enforced by adequate machinery.
RatioOfTheDecision	Our attention was drawn by learned counsel appearing for lease- holders to the part of national policy which provides that beneficiaries who are allowed mining and quarrying in forest land and in land covered by trees should be required to repair and re-vegetate the area in accordance with established forestry practices to submit that the policy itself contemplates mining operations in the forest area.
RatioOfTheDecision	For present, we are not suggesting a complete ban of mining operations on forest land so long as it is possible to undertake the said operation on the sustainable  development principles and after obtaining due approvals under various statutory provisions including Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980.
RatioOfTheDecision	At the same time, we are unable to appreciate the commencement and continuation of mining over areas on which crores of the foreign funds have been spent for afforestation and plantation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further, it is also not possible to accept the contention urged on behalf of the lease holders that only that part of such leased land where allegedly damage has been caused to plantation as a result of mining operations, be excluded from mining and not the entire area of the lease.
RatioOfTheDecision	For example, if the mining area is 5 hectare and damages as a result of mining is to plantation in an area of 1 hectare, it is not practicable or reasonable to exclude only that 1 hectare and permit the mining operation on the rest of the mining area.
RatioOfTheDecision	Reference can also be usefully made to the part of the State of Forest Report, 1999 issued by <ORG> in relation to Haryana.
RatioOfTheDecision	It, in ter alia, provides that large scale plantations were carried out under Aravalli project since 1992.
RatioOfTheDecision	The document claims increase of the forest cover in the <ORG> as a result of plantation under the Aravalli project.
RatioOfTheDecision	It, inter alia, mentions that forest cover increase in Gurgaon and Faridabad is mainly due to plantation raised under the Aravalli project which was started in early 1990s.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these matters, neither the <ORG> nor the leaseholders can be permitted to turn round and now take a stand that the areas covered under the Aravalli project is not forest.
RatioOfTheDecision	The National Forestry Action Programme of December 2000 issued by <ORG> giving project profile also makes detailed reference to the institution building and integrated national resource development in the Aravalli region, Haryana under the project implementing agency of <ORG>, <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The project profile, inter alia, states that the Central to such a policy is rehabilitation of common l ands to meet the needs of the rural poor and to reduce soil and water erosion and the proposed programme was envisaged to bring the benefit of integrated development of the Aravalli eco-system to the whole community, particularly, to the poorer sections.
RatioOfTheDecision	The project, it is stated, has been implemented in Aravalli hills situated in the five districts of Haryana including Gurgaon.
RatioOfTheDecision	One of the expected outcome of the project is the reduced soil erosion and improved water regime in the rehabilitated area will be drastically reduce and run-off leading to recharge of constantly depleting ground water resources.
RatioOfTheDecision	It records that <ORG> has implemented a project on the eco-restoration of common lands in the Aravalli hills, from June 1990 to October 1999.
RatioOfTheDecision	The project is being funded by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The total cost was 28.8 million ECU in which external assistance was to the extent of 23.2 million EUC.
Precedent	Aravallis Hill Range The Aravallis, most distinctive and ancient mountain chain  of peninsular India, mark the site of one of the oldest geological formations in the world.
Precedent	Heavily eroded and with exposed outcrops of the slate rock and granite, it has summits reaching 4950 feet above sea level.
Precedent	Due to its geological location, the Aravalli range harbours a mix of Saharan, Ethiopian, Peninsular, oriental and even Malayan elements of flora and fauna.
Precedent	In the early part of this century, the Aravallis were well wooded.
Precedent	There were dense forests with waterfalls and one could encounter a large number of wild animals.
Precedent	Today, the changes in the environment at Aravalli are severe.
Precedent	Though one finds a number of tree species in the hills, timber quality trees have almost disappeared.
RatioOfTheDecision	Despite the increase of population resulting in increase of demand from the forest, It cannot be questioned nor has been questioned that to save the ecology of the Aravalli mountain, the laws have to be strictly implemented.
RatioOfTheDecision	The notification dated 7th May, 1992 was passed with a view to strictly implement the measures to p rotect the ecology of the Aravalli range.
RatioOfTheDecision	The notification was followed more in its breach.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the aforesaid background, any mining activity on the area under plantation under Aravalli project cannot be permitted.
RatioOfTheDecision	The grant of leases for mining operation over such an area would be wholly arbitrary, unreasonable and illogical.
Fact	Report of <ORG> on Aravalli <ORG> (<ORG>) on being asked by <ORG> to conduct a study of environmental problems of Aravalli hills and preparation of action plan for restoration of environmental quality in Gurgaon district, after extensive examination, has submitted to <ORG> its final report in July 2003.
Fact	<ORG> is a subsidiary of <ORG> (<ORG>).
Fact	The report in respect of Aravalli range in Gurgaon district has been prepared by <ORG> with the following objectives :  1.
Fact	To prepare status report of the pollution problems in the Aravalli Hills.
Fact	2.
Fact	To prepare environmental managemen t plan to abate various environmental problems  3.
Fact	To prepare action plan for restoration of environmental quality.
Fact	The environmental problems in the Aravalli Range in Gurgaon district have been identified and remedial measures including the pollution control guidelines and action plan for various stakeholders have been suggested by <ORG>.
Fact	It has been noticed that in large scale mining projects what is still required is a proposal on district level as to what will be mined, how it will be mined and with what method and many such areas of environmental concern which had not been adequately addressed keeping in view the environmental degradation of the Aravalli Hills.
Fact	It has also been noticed that the Aravalli notification restricts process and operations under certain categories of the land in district.
Fact	Though the records of such lands are available at every village level map, there is no record available in the district level in respect of these areas to undertake realistic appraisal and effective monitoring  of mining and other projects at the macro level on such lands.
Fact	While noticing that, notification dated 29th November, 1999, inter alia, made provision for preparing a master plan integrating the environmental concerns and the future land use of the area, but the master plan prepared on 28th August, 2002 does not, inter alia, address the issue of natural resource assessment and water Resource status; the areas near crushing zone and active mining zone remain a matter of concern and concerted efforts have not been given to the quality of roads and the dust suppression measures to maintain the air quality within safe limits.
Fact	The guidelines of operation in an eco-friendly manner have been issued by <ORG> but the compliance is only partial, inasmuch as wind breaking walls are not proper, pollution control devices are not operating and the green belt around the crushing zones are not maintained.
Fact	Identification of mines in the district is difficult.
Fact	There does not seem to be mechanism to upgrade the  mining technologies and methodologies to minimize the impact due to mining in the eco-sensitive zones in the district.
Fact	There is no identified land where overburden could be temporarily dumped prior to being utilized for void filling and for other purposes.
Fact	There does not seem to adequate awareness among the people in respect of the environmental problems.
Fact	In some parts of the district, the ground water potential is already in the dark category.
Fact	Lack of water conservation measures and rainwater harvesting may ultimately lead to water scarcity in the near future.
Fact	Having identified the environmental problems, various actions have been recommended by <ORG> for the eco restoration in the Aravalli Range in Gurgaon district.
Fact	It has been, inter alia, recommended that it is imperative on the part of <ORG> to improve inter- departmental co-ordination among various Government departments to achieve the common objective, i.e., ecological restoration of Aravalli Hills in the district.
Fact	The master plan shoul d indicate the proposed eco- restoration plan to compensate the environmental degradation by the proposed activities in the master plan.
Fact	Rehabilitation programmes for the abandoned mines areas either to convert these to water reservoirs and eco-parks or reclamation by filling by rural waste, urban waste or fly ash.
Fact	The master plan should be detailed to show the areas where overburden could be dumped, areas where waste material could be stocked, areas where plantation could be carried out, etc.etc.
Fact	The planning should, inter alia, include environmental impact and concerns of activities of one sector on the other sectors in the district, e.g., afforestation should be planned not only with a view to increase vegetation on the hills but also to be supplement for fuel, fodder etc.
Fact	in the district.
Fact	All efforts should be made to preserve the ground water resources.
Fact	Water shed management and rainwater harvesting to be implemented in the Aravalli hills regions on war footing.
Fact	In the areas where mining deeper than the  ground water table of the area is to be carried out, adequate provision of pollution control and conservation of water resources should be made.
Fact	There should be frequent inspections of the mining operations to ensure that these are in line with the requirement for sustainable development.
Fact	The inspections may be carried out at an interval of three months.
Fact	There should be continual source of revenue from the mining operations to the fund, recommended to be created, for the eco-restoration of the Aravalli hills.
Fact	The minimum period of lease should be for 15-20 years.
Fact	This will induce the mine operators to take environmental protection measures more seriously.
Fact	<ORG> shall undertake regular monitoring to check compliance and to assess the ambient air quality, water quality and other environmental protection measures.
Fact	<ORG> should take initiative to appoint <ORG> to monitor the eco-restoration efforts and to provide technical support to the impl ementing organizations.
Fact	The renewal of mining lease and granting new leases should be effected after examining the environmental protection measures taken by the lessee.
Fact	Requisite data should be displayed on the internet to arouse awareness in public and for further usage.
Fact	Stringent action should be taken for water conservation.
Fact	<ORG> may even carry out the afforestation on behalf of mine operators.
Fact	Expenses should, however, be borne by the mine operators.
Fact	The afforestation shall be carried out keeping in view, inter alia, the consideration of checking the soil erosion.
Fact	The mine lessee should implement the environmental management plan and mining plan approved by the concerned authority.
Fact	In future, efforts in respect of search for sustainable development should broadly take into consideration resource potential in the region, the demand of the products and the supply options.
Fact	Though the demand for the niche products existing in the Aravalli range which is one of the oldest mountain ranges in I ndia will continue to grow, the supply options need to be given a closer look due to eco-sensitivity of the region.
Fact	The environmental cost needs to be internalized in the cost of the product and there is need to limit the supply options.
Fact	Noticing that the Aravalli range prevents the desert from spreading into Indo-Gangetic plains, it has been suggested that all future planning should not only concentrate to meet the ever growing demand of the products but due consideration should also be given to protect the chain.
Fact	All the developmental activities should, therefore, be planned in a coherent manner and there should be integrated approach for sustainable development.
Fact	<ORG> has noticed that in the Aravalli Hills, a large number of activities, operations of stone crushers and deforestation besides other activities are causing environmental degradation.
Fact	These mines are usually located in the clusters in remote mineral rich districts/areas where living standards is lower and understanding of people towards environ mental impact is also poor.
Fact	In the past, the mine operators took no note of environmental damage.
Fact	In fact, they were not even conscious about it.
Fact	The attitude of mining community is to ignore the environmental concerns.
Fact	In majority of the cases, the environmental concerns are ignored for making quick profits.
Fact	The small mines (less than 5 hectares) and the mining of minor minerals which are no doubt small individually but have damaging characteristics when in clusters, e.g.
Fact	the mines of granite, marble, slates, quartzite etc.
Fact	(falling under minor minerals) are no less damaging than the others, especially when the processing is taken into consideration.
Fact	The mining activities results in disturbance of land surface, altering drainage pattern and land use, besides the pollution problems, which may lead to the environmental problems of air, water and noise pollution and solid waste pollution.
Fact	It has been suggested that the short term and long term action plan for the restoration of environmental quality of the are a shall be prepared separately.
Fact	The action plan shall be prepared in such a way that it should be a guiding tool also in the hands of the state pollution control boards and Government agencies for enforcement of the environmental laws for the restoration of environmental quality of the area.
Fact	Monitoring programme shall include frequency of monitoring for air quality, water quality, ground water, solid wastes, noise level etc.
Fact	In respect of water resources, it has been, inter alia, suggested that in order to draw water resource management plan, it is essential to assess the water quality of the various components of the hydrologic cycle, i.e., stream, ground water, surface water etc.
Fact	It has been pointed out that since the surface water potential is not promising in the district, there is increased dependence on the ground water for meeting the agricultural, domestic and industrial requirement resulting in depletion of ground water resources in the district.
Fact	It has been suggested that utmost care is required for  further development of ground water in the areas where the recharge of the ground water is low.
Fact	Dealing with the flora and fauna, it has been pointed out that the earliest account shows that at one time the Aravalli hills were well covered with dhauk (Anogeissus pendula).
Fact	Now, except in few places, viz., the Jhir Forest in Firozpur Jhirka (dedicated to Mahadeo Temple) and near Bhondsi recently regenerated with dhauk, the Aravallis are by and large, bereft of vegetation in the district.
Fact	It has been noticed that in order to take stock of the environmental problems, <ORG> and <ORG> team made several visits to Aravalli hills and held discussion with the mine operators, <ORG> officials and local people.
Fact	There are number of mining projects etc.
Fact	which are already existing and there is also tremendous potential to further increase the industrial and the other development activities.
Fact	The environmental impact due to mining projects on air quality, water quality, noise level, overburden etc.
Fact	have been noticed and it h as been pointed out that the opening of new projects will further affect some of the environmental attributes.
Fact	The report notices that the environmental degradation has taken place due to mining activities.
Fact	The existing crusher units are also not functioning on the environmental sound systems.
Fact	The situation warrants closer look on various components of the systems affecting the environmental attributes in the area, devising pragmatic approaches to facilitate eco-restoration of the Aravalli hills and offering broad framework to the industrial units to function under environmentally sustainable framework.
Fact	The suggestions also include the enactment of rules for grant of mine leases to levy a separate charge for dump removal, ecological restoration in the area, the technology to be used for mining operations and post mining land use and mine decommissioning.
Fact	As far as environmental protection in the Aravalli hills is concerned, planning and provisions must start from the stage of grant of mine lease and what all  it should include have been set out.
Fact	It has been, inter alia, suggested that the environmental framework shall include the framework for environmental clearance such as depth of cutting, area of plantation and the type of plantation, which are attributes related to closure planning as also framework for monitoring and for forestry besides air quality, land use pattern etc.
Fact	In nutshell, it has been suggested that it is imperative on the part of the mine operators to carry out the mine operations in such a fashion that it has least impact on the ecology of the area.
Fact	The pollution prevention guidelines have been suggested in para 7.1.1.2 Having regard to the detailed study, the recommendations and action plan has been dealt with in Chapter VIII of the report, inter alia, suggesting that concerted efforts from various departments are needed.
Fact	The report states that though the environmental upgradation measures need to be taken more seriously by the mine and other industrial operators, there is need on the part of  <ORG> to immediately start these measures in the areas where degradation has already taken place.
Fact	The other recommendations have already been broadly noticed.
RulingByLowerCourt	No one has raised any objection to the recommendations contained in the report of <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	We accept the recommendations in principle.
RulingByLowerCourt	Modification of Order dated 6th May, 2002 Regarding Mining in Aravalli Now, the question is should mining activities in the Aravalli range in Gurgaon district be permitted to restart and, to that extent, the order dated 6th May, 2002 be modified, meanwhile directing implementation of recommendations in the report of <ORG> and earlier referred reports.
RulingByLowerCourt	The other option is to first constitute a monitoring committee directing it to individually examine and inspect mines from environmental angle in the light of the said recommendations and file a report in this Court in respect of individual mines with its recommendations for restart or otherwise as also recommendation, if any, for the payment by the mine opera tors and/or by <ORG> towards environmental fund having regard to the precautionary principles and polluter pays principle and on consideration of that report, to decide the aspect of modification of the order dated 6th May, 2002, partially or entirely.
RulingByLowerCourt	We are of the view that the second option is more appropriate.
RulingByLowerCourt	We are conscious of observations in <ORG> that measures for protecting the environment can be undertaken without stopping mine operations and also the suggestions of <ORG> to permit mining subject to the mine lease holders undertaking to comply with such conditions which remain to be complied, but, having regard to the enormous degradation of the environment, in our view, the safer and the proper course is to first constitute <ORG>, get a report from it and only thereafter consider, on individual mine to mine basis, lifting of ban imposed in terms of order dated 6th May, 2002.
RulingByLowerCourt	Before concluding this aspect, we may note that assuming there was any ambiguity about the applic ability of order dated 6th May, 2002 to mining in Aravalli Range, it is clarified that the said order would be applicable to all the mines in Aravalli hill range in Gurgaon district.
RulingByLowerCourt	Applicability of notification dated 27th January, 1994 The notification has been reproduced in the earlier part of the judgment.
RulingByLowerCourt	It, inter alia, applies to mining projects (major minerals) with leases of more than 5 hectares.
RulingByLowerCourt	It can neither be disputed nor has been disputed that the notification is mandatory.
Argument	It, inter alia, provides that on and from the date of its publication in official <ORG> expansion or modernization of any activity (if pollution load is to exceed the existing one) or a new project listed in Schedule A of this notification shall not be undertaken in any part of India unless it has been accorded environmental clearance by <ORG> in accordance with the procedure specified therein.
Argument	The contention urged on behalf of the lease-holders is that the leases in question do not relate to expansion or  modernization of any activity as postulated by the notification.
Argument	Further, it is contended, that the notification applies to 'a new project' which means that it will apply to mining lease granted after issue of notification.
Argument	It has been strenuously contended that the renewal of existing mining lease is neither 'an expansion' nor 'modernization' nor is it a 'new project' and, therefore, the notification will have no applicability at the time of consideration of the renewal of the lease.
Argument	<ORG> has been placed on a decision of this Court in <NAME>'s case (supra) holding that the notification is clearly prospective and, inter alia, prohibits the undertaking of a new project listed in Schedule I without prior environmental clearance from <ORG>.
Argument	The contention urged was that since in <NAME>'s case, where construction had commenced nearly 8 years prior to the notification, same very notification was not held applicable.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the same analogy, it cannot have any applicability to the leases granted  prior to the issue of notification.
RatioOfTheDecision	No doubt, the notification is prospective but the question here is whether it would be applicable when the aspect of renewal comes up for consideration after the issue of the notification.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>'s case, it was not held that this notification will not apply at the stage of renewal.
RatioOfTheDecision	The observations made in para 129 of the said decision and relied upon by learned counsel for the lease holders have no relevance to determine the applicability of the notification at the stage of renewal.
RatioOfTheDecision	In <NAME>'s case, the environmental clearance had been granted in the year 1987 and this Court noticing that when it was granted by the Prime Minister, whatever studies were available were taken into consideration, it was known that the construction of the dam would result in submergence and the consequent effect which the reservoir will have on the ecology of the surrounding areas and various studies relating to environmental impact had been taken into consideration and that there was n o obligation to obtain the statutory clearance under 1994 notification.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case, regarding the manner of grant of no objection certificate from environmental angle for proposed mining activity, by way of illustration, we may refer to the order dated 18th January, 1999 issued by <ORG> whereby no objection certificate for renewal of lease was granted stipulating that the applicant <NAME> in respect of mining activity at village Anangpur, district Faridabad shall also seeking environmental clearance of its mining project in compliance with this notification without even mentioning any time limit for it and admittedly till date that had not been done.
RatioOfTheDecision	None bothered to find out whether conditions in the order has been complied or not.
RatioOfTheDecision	Further the letter dated 25th January, 2003, sent to Principal Secretary of <ORG> by <ORG>, Haryana shows how the State Government has been circumventing the legal requirements and permi tting mining.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that letter, it has been stated that pending approval of the environmental plan, the mining lessees undertook the mining operation of the minor mineral on issue of short term permit, in cases where the fresh mining leases were granted and in case of renewal of mining leases, the mining activities were going on.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is despite conditions in the judgment dated 10th May, 1996 by this Court that <ORG> would be responsible for mining in the State of Haryana.
Precedent	Be that as it may and reverting to legal position, in <CITATION_1186098> .
Precedent	[], though a case under Forest (Conservation) Act , 1980 rejecting the contention that approval at the stage of renewal was not necessary and also the plea that since the leaseholders had invested sum of money in mining operation, it was the duty of the authorities to renew the lease, it was held that having regard to the awareness that deforestation and ecological imbalances as a result of deforestation have become social menaces and  the same should be prevented and that the concept that power coupled with the duty enjoined upon the respondents to renew the lease stood eroded by the mandate of the FC Act.
Precedent	It was held that The primary duty was to the community and that duty took precedence.
Precedent	In such cases, the obligation to the society must predominate over the obligation to the individuals.
Precedent	It would be apposite to reproduce what was said by Justice <NAME> (as he then was) in paras 14 and 15 which read thus : "14.
Argument	Here the case of the appellants is that they have invested large sums of money in mining operations.
Argument	Therefore, it was the duty of the authorities that the power of granting permission should have been so exercised that the appellants had the full benefits of their investments.
Argument	It was emphasized that none of the appellants had committed any breach of the terms of grant nor were there any other factors disentitling them to such renewal.
Precedent	While there was power to grant renewal and in these cases there were clauses permitting rene wals, it might have cast a duty to grant such renewal in the facts and circumstances of the cases specially in view of the investments made by the appellants in the areas covered by the quarrying leases, but renewals cannot be claimed as a matter of right for the following reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rules dealt with a situation prior to the coming into operation of 1980 Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	'1980 Act' was an Act in recognition of the awareness that deforestation and ecological imbalances as a result of deforestation have become social menaces and further deforestation and ecological imbalances should be prevented.
RatioOfTheDecision	That was the primary purpose writ large in the Act of 1980.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore the concept that power coupled with the duty enjoined upon the respondents to renew the lease stands eroded by the mandate of the legislation as manifest in 1980 Act in the facts and circumstances of these cases.
Precedent	The primary duty was to the community and that duty took precedence, in our opinion, in these cases.
Precedent	The obligation to the society must predomin ate over the obligation to the individuals."
Precedent	<CITATION_181685796> .
Precedent	[1989 Supp.
Precedent	(1) SCC 504], agreeing with views expressed in <ORG>, it was held that the FC Act applies to renewals as well and even if there was a provision for renewal in the lease agreement on exercise of lessee's option, the requirement of the Act had to be satisfied before such renewal could be granted.
Precedent	<CITATION_48415287> [1995 Supp.
Precedent	(1) SCC 587], these two decisions were relied upon and it was held that even the renewal of lease cannot be granted without the prior concurrence of <ORG>.
Precedent	It is settled law that the grant of renewal is a fresh grant and must be consistent with law.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to accept the contention that the notification dated 27th January, 1994 would not apply to leases which come up for consideration for renewal after issue of the notification.
RatioOfTheDecision	The notification mandates that the mining operation shall not be undertaken in any part of India unless environmental clearance by <ORG>  <ORG> has been accorded.
RatioOfTheDecision	The clearance under the notification is valid for a period of five years.
RatioOfTheDecision	In none of the leases the requirement of notification was complied with either at the stage of initial grant of the mining lease or at the stage of renewal.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some of the leases were fresh leases granted after issue of the notification.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some were cases of renewal.
RatioOfTheDecision	No mining operation can commence without obtaining environmental impact assessment in terms of the notification.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Applicability of Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 to areas treated as forest by <ORG> The provisions of the Act provide for the conservations of forest and for matters connected therewith or ancillary or incidental thereto.
RatioOfTheDecision	Any forest land or portion thereof cannot be used for any non-forest purposes or assigned by way of leases or otherwise to any private person or to any authority, corporation, agency or any other organization not owned, managed or controlled by the <ORG>, except with the prior approval of the  <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mining activity within forest area cannot be permitted in contravention of the provisions of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act makes the contravention of any of the provisions of Section 2 as an offence punishable in the manner provided in the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The controversy is in respect of certain leases where area under the lease is covered under notification issued under Section 4 and/or 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question is whether such area is 'forest' of any kind.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under Section 3 of the aforesaid Act, whenever it appears to <ORG> that it is desirable to provide for the conservation of sub-soil water or the prevention of erosion in any area subject to erosion or likely to become liable to erosion, such Government may by notification make a direction accordingly.
Statute	Under <CITATION_158774304> , <ORG> has power to regulate, restrict or prohibit the quarrying of stone or the burning of lime at placed where such stone or lime had not ordinarily been so quarried or  burnt prior to the publication of the notification under section  3.
Statute	Section 5(b) in respect of any specified village or villages, or part or parts thereof, comprised within the limits of any area notified under section 3 , <ORG> may, by special order, temporarily regulate, restrict or prohibit the quarrying of any stone or the burning of any lime at places where such stone or lime had ordinarily been so quarried or burnt prior to the publication of the notification under section 3 .
Statute	In respect of some mining areas notifications have been issued under Section 4 and in respect of some notifications have been issued both under Sections 4 and  5.
Argument	The submission is that invoking of Sections 3 , 4 and 5 is only to conserve sub-soil water and prevention of the area from erosion of land and is not to create any forest.
Argument	It has been pointed out that in cases where the notifications have been issued, only felling of trees had been prohibited and not quarrying of stone.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot be disputed that the Sta te <ORG> has been treating and showing the aforesaid areas as 'forest'.
RatioOfTheDecision	The contention urged on behalf of <ORG> is that it was on account of erroneous view point of <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact and law, such area is not 'forest' and mining is not prohibited and, therefore the question of seeking permission under Section 2 of the FC Act does not arise.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the instant case, it is not necessary to decide the legal effect of issue of the notification under Section 4 and/or 5 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Not only in their record the area has been shown as forest but the affidavits have been filed in this Court stating the area to be 'forest'.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_282585> .
Precedent	[] , this Court held that the term 'forest' is to be understood in the dictionary sense and also that any area regarded as a forest in <ORG> record irrespective of ownership would be a forest.
Precedent	The State of Haryana, besides having filed affidavits in the forest matters treating such areas as forest for the purposes of the FC Act has been seekin g prior approval from <ORG> for diversion of such land for non-forestry purpose.
Precedent	Reference in this connection may also be made to the affidavit dated 8th December, 1996 filed by <NAME>, Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, Chandigarh, Haryana in Civil Writ No.171 of 1996 <CITATION_1264331> attention has also been drawn to letter dated 26th November, 2002 addressed by Divisional Forest Officer, Faridabad to Mining Officer, Faridabad forwarding to him a list of blocked forest areas of Faridabad district and requesting him to ensure that the said forest areas are not affected by any mining operations as also to a letter dated 17th September, 2001 sent by Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, Haryana (Panchkula) to <ORG> Haryana stating therein that no mining activity can be permitted in the area.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the facts and circumstances of the case, we cannot permit <ORG> to take a compete summersault in these proceedings and contend that the earlier stand that th e area is 'forest was under some erroneous impressions.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case, for the purposes of the FC Act, these areas shall be treated as forest and for use of it for non-forestry purpose, it would be necessary to comply with the provisions of the FC Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	We may also note that assuming that there was any confusion or erroneous impression, it ought to have been first sorted out at appropriate level and where affidavits had been filed in this Court, clarifications/orders sought before issue of the mining lease in respect of such area.
RatioOfTheDecision	Impact of Mining on Ground Water Where during mining water level is touched, <ORG> shall carve out that area and it was agreed on behalf of the leaseholders that they would co-operate and not undertake any mining in such an area.
RatioOfTheDecision	Non-payment of royalty to the villagers A controversy has been raised about non-payment of royalty by the leaseholders to villagers on whose behalf it was contended that the order dated 6th May, 2002 prohibiting mining should not b e varied till the leaseholders discharge their liability to pay royalty to the villagers.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, mine leaseholders dispute the claim put-forth on behalf of the villagers and it has been submitted that no amount is payable by them and the villagers can make their claim, if any, from <ORG>.
RulingByPresentCourt	The dispute of this nature cannot be properly adjudicated in these proceedings.
RulingByPresentCourt	We leave it open to be adjudicated before appropriate forum in accordance with law.
RulingByPresentCourt	Leases in respect of minor mineral Though notification dated 27th January, 1994 is not applicable to minor minerals, but having regard to what we have discussed above in regard to degradation of environment and the required standard about the risk of harm to the environment or to human health to be decided in public interest according to 'reasonable person's test', and the report of <ORG>, we direct <ORG> to examine the leases granted for extraction of minor mineral in light thereof and file its report.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Committee  would, however, bear in mind that the notification dated 27th January, 1994 as such is not applicable to these leases.
RulingByLowerCourt	Mining in Faridabad District Having examined the matter, we are of the view that though the study conducted by <ORG> relates to mining activity in Aravalli Hills in Gurgaon district, in public interest the general safeguards and suggestions in that report deserve to be implemented in respect of mining in Faridabad district as well.
RulingByLowerCourt	We have already extracted the recommendations of <ORG>, as also violations noticed in the reports submitted by <ORG> and the suggestions of <ORG>, <ORG> and <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> shall inspect the leases in question in Faridabad District as well in the light of these recommendations and file its report containing suggestions on recommencement or otherwise of the mining activity therein.
RulingByLowerCourt	It may be reiterated that if, despite stringent conditions, the degradation of environment continues and reaches a stage of no return, this Court may have to consider, at a l ater date, the closure of mining activity in areas where there is such a risk.
RulingByLowerCourt	As earlier noticed as well, it would not be expedient to lift the ban on mining imposed in terms of the order of this Court dated 6th May, 2002 before ensuring implementation of suggestions of <ORG> and other recommendations of experts (<ORG>, <ORG> and <ORG>).
Fact	The safer course is to consider this question, on individual basis after receipt of report of <ORG>.
Fact	Environment Impact assessment applications During the course of hearing environment assessment applications in terms of notification dated 27th January, 1994 have been filed by some of the leaseholders.
RulingByPresentCourt	In case, those applications are presently with <ORG>, the same shall be forthwith forwarded by <ORG> to <ORG>.
RulingByPresentCourt	The adverse effect, if any, and extent thereof on human health and ecology shall be examined while deciding impact of these activities.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is also the desirability of transparency in such matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> is directed to consider  the said applications within a period of 10 weeks.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> With a view to monitor the overall eco-restoration efforts in the Aravalli Hills and to provide technical support to the implementing organizations and also to monitor implementation of recommendations contained in reports referred herein, it is necessary to constitute a <ORG>.
Fact	The heads of the following departments would be members of the <ORG> :  1.
Fact	Regional Officer of <ORG>.
Fact	2.
Fact	<ORG>  3.
Fact	<ORG>  4.
Fact	<ORG>  5.
Fact	<ORG>  6.
Fact	Regional Officer of <ORG>  7.
Fact	<ORG>  8.
Fact	<ORG>.
Fact	9.
Fact	Chairman - <ORG>.
Fact	Besides above, <ORG> is directed to appoint an officer from <ORG> to be a member of the <ORG>.
Fact	The following persons as representatives of public shall also be members of the said <ORG> :  1.
Fact	Prof. <NAME>, Ex Chairman, <ORG>.
Fact	2.
Fact	Mr. <NAME>,   3.
Fact	Mr. <NAME>.
Fact	The <ORG> would act as a nodal agency of <ORG>.
Fact	The Secretary of <ORG> is directed to appoint an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary in the <ORG> for the said purpose.
Fact	<ORG> is directed to inspect the mines in question and file a report within a period of three months, inter alia, containing suggestions for recommencement of mining in individual cases.
Fact	All concerned individuals and departments are directed to render full co- operation to <ORG>.
Fact	Conclusions  1.
Fact	The order dated 6th May, 2002 as clarified hereinbefore cannot be vacated or varied before consideration of the report of <ORG> constituted by this judgment.
Fact	2.
Fact	The notification of environment assessment clearance dated 27th January, 1994 is applicable also when renewal of mining lease is considered after issue of the notification.
Fact	3.
Fact	On the facts of the case, the mining activity on areas covered under Section 4 and/or 5 of Punjab Land Preserva tion Act, 1900 cannot be undertaken without approval under the Forest (Conservation) Act , 1980.
Fact	4.
Fact	No mining activity can be carried out on area over which plantation has been undertaken under Aravalli project by utilization of foreign funds.
Fact	5.
Fact	The mining activity can be permitted only on the basis of sustainable development and on compliance of stringent conditions.
Fact	6.
Fact	The Aravalli hill range has to be protected at any cost.
Fact	In case despite stringent condition, there is an adverse irreversible effect on the ecology in the Aravalli hill range area, at a later date, the total stoppage of mining activity in the area may have to be considered.
Fact	For similar reasons such step may have to be considered in respect of mining in Faridabad District as well.
Fact	7.
Fact	<ORG> is directed to prepare a short term and long term action plan for the restoration of environmental quality of Aravalli hills in Gurgaon district having regard to what is stated in final report of <ORG> within four months.
RulingByPresentCourt	8.
RulingByPresentCourt	Violation of any of the con ditions would entail the risk of cancellation of mining lease.
RulingByPresentCourt	The mining activity shall continue only on strict compliance of the stipulated conditions.
RulingByPresentCourt	The matters are directed to be listed after reopening of courts after summer vacation on receipt of the report from <ORG>.
