RulingByLowerCourt	ORDER M. Jeyapaul, J.
RulingByLowerCourt	1.
Precedent	Crl.R.C.
Fact	No.
Fact	48 of 2008 is filed challenging the order passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate No.
Fact	6, Salem in Crl.
Fact	M.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	5231 of 2007 dated 31.12.2007 and Crl.R.C.
Fact	No.
Fact	148 of 2008 is filed challenging the order dated 11.1.2008 passed by the very same learned Judicial Magistrate in CRL.M.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	176 of 2008.
Fact	2.
Fact	The first petitioner is the <NAME>, second petitioner is the mother-in-law and the third petitioner is sister-in-law of the respondent.
Fact	Invoking the provision under Section 23(2) of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005, the respondent sought for an ex-parte residence order in Crl.M.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	5231 of 2007.
Argument	3.
Argument	In the affidavit filed by the respondent, she has stated that she was driven away from the matrimonial home and has been living without any food, cloth and shelter.
Argument	She has further alleged in the said affidavit that she was driven away in the mid of night by beating her and as a result of which she did not have a roof to decide.
Argument	Therefore, she has soug ht for an ex-parte residence order to be implemented by <ORG>.
Argument	4.
Argument	The learned Judicial Magistrate having adverted to the aforesaid allegations found in the affidavit in the background of the materials produced along with the main petition passed residence order in absentia of the petitioners herein.
Argument	The said order is under challenge in Crl.R.C.
Argument	No.
Precedent	48 of 2008.
Argument	5.
Argument	The respondent thereafter filed a petition in C.M.P.
Argument	No.
Fact	176 of 2008 invoking the provision under Section 31 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005 seeking to enforce the order already passed in Crl.M.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	5231 of 2007 alleging therein that the petitioners have locked the premises dishonoring the residence order passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate.
Fact	The learned Judicial Magistrate having heard both sides passed an order on 11.1.2008 directing the police to break open the lock and give protection to the respondent herein to reside in the house.
Fact	The said order is under challenge in Crl.R.C.
Fact	No.
Precedent	148 of 2008 .
Argument	6.
Argument	The learned Counsel appearing for the petitioners would vehemently submit that the subject house is neither the rental house nor the own house of the first petitioner herein.
Argument	Therefore the subject house does not fall under the definition "shared household" found in Section 2(s) of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005.
Argument	It is his further submission that the petitioners are prepared to provide alternate accommodation as contemplated under Section 19(f) of the Act by shouldering the responsibility of paying rent therefor.
Argument	He contends that a Divorce petition filed by the first petitioner herein is pending adjudication.
Argument	He would further submit that the learned Judicial Magistrate has not expressed his satisfaction based on the averment found in the affidavit filed by the respondent that the application did disclose a prima facie case of commission of an act of domestic violence or the likelihood of the commission of the said act.
Argument	Therefore, the order passed bereft of any satisfaction expr essed by the learned Judicial Magistrate is unsustainable.
Argument	As regards the other order passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate to break open the lock in the subject house with the assistance of the police, he would submit that there is no specific provision under the Act to pass such an order passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate.
Argument	It is his further submission that when the main application was posted on 21.1.2008 for counter, the interim application in Crl.M.P.
Argument	No.
Argument	176 of 2008 was taken up hurriedly on 11.1.2008 and the same was disposed.
Argument	The learned Judicial Magistrate should have waited till the petitioners herein file a counter in the main application for the disposal of the interim application filed by the respondent seeking break open.
Argument	In view of the above, the impugned order is not sustainable, he would submit.
Argument	7.
Argument	The learned Counsel appearing for the respondent would contend that the first petitioner was the owner of the subject premises where both the first petitioner and the respondent resided  as <NAME> and wife.
Argument	But, after the matrimonial dispute had arisen between the parties, the first petitioner has chosen to alienate the property in the name of the second petitioner on 20.4.2006.
Argument	Even otherwise, the learned Counsel appearing for the respondent would submit that the house of the second petitioner, which is in the permissible occupation of the first petitioner along with her wife shall be treated as 'shared household'.
Argument	He would further submit that the pendency of the Divorce Application has nothing to do with the protection order under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005.
Argument	Though the order does not specifically state that the learned Judicial Magistrate was satisfied with the averment found in the affidavit, the details graphically given by the learned Judicial Magistrate about the concrete allegations made in the application would go to show that the learned Judicial Magistrate having been satisfied passed the residence order.
Argument	The suggestion emanated from the petitioners t hat they are prepared to offer alternate accommodation can be decided during the disposal of the main application filed by the respondent.
Argument	As regards the other petition filed for breaking open of the lock in the premises, the learned Counsel for the respondent would contend that the learned Judicial Magistrate is empowered under Section 19(7) of the Act to give suitable direction to the officer incharge of <ORG> to assist the Court in the implementation of the protection order if any passed by the Court.
Argument	Therefore, there is nothing wrong in the direction given by the learned Judicial Magistrate to break open the lock to accommodate the wife in the house where she last resided.
Argument	The application seeking to break open the lock cannot be kept in abeyance till the petitioners herein file a counter leisurely in the main application.
Argument	The merit or the otherwise of the interim application filed seeking to break open the lock will have to be decided expeditiously without waiting for any counter in the main  petition.
Argument	The learned Judicial Magistrate has rightly passed the order considering the urgency of the matter, he would further submit before this Court.
Argument	8.
Argument	<ORG> in <CITATION_594165> has held that 'shared household' means only the house belonging to or taken on rent by the <NAME> or house which belongs to the joint family in which the <NAME> is one of the members.
Argument	It has also been observed therein that the property exclusively owned by the mother of the <NAME> cannot be called 'shared household', as per the definition found in Section 2(s) of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005.
Fact	In the above case, it is found that wife had chosen to file a Suit seeking bare injunction restraining her <NAME> and his mother from dispossessing the wife from the property in question.
RulingByLowerCourt	On facts, it is observed that the <NAME> of the respondent therein had already shifted his residence to a flat in Ghaziabad before ever the litigation between the parties started.
RulingByLowerCourt	In such circumstances, the Sup <ORG> has held that the place where the wife alone was residing cannot be termed as a matrimonial home.
RulingByLowerCourt	9.
RulingByLowerCourt	But, in this case even before the litigation started, it is reported that both of them had resided in the subject house, which is now in the name of the second petitioner.
RulingByLowerCourt	Further, it is brought to the notice of this Court that after the dispute had arisen between the parties, the first petitioner, who was the original owner of the property alienated the same in favour of his mother, the second petitioner herein.
RulingByLowerCourt	Therefore, factually, the aforesaid ratio laid down by the Sup<ORG> can be distinguished.
Argument	If the contention of the petitioners is accepted, every <NAME> will simply alienate his property in favour of somebody else after the dispute has arisen and would take a stand that the house where they last resided is not a shared household and therefore the wife is not entitled to seek for residence right in the shared household.
Argument	10.
Argument	As rightly pointed out by the learned Counsel for the respon dent, the pendency of the Divorce petition at the instance of the first petitioner has nothing to do with the interim orders sought for by the respondent invoking the provisions under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005.
Argument	The reliefs provided under the aforesaid Special Act will have to be granted in genuine cases, even during the pendency of the Matrimonial Case between the parties before the forum concerned.
Argument	11.
Argument	On a careful perusal of the impugned order passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate in Crl.M.P.
Argument	No.
Argument	176 of 2008, it is found that the learned Judicial Magistrate has graphically described the various domestic violence alleged in the affidavit filed by the respondent herein.
Argument	He has also observed that he had an occasion to go through the entire materials filed in the main petition.
Argument	As rightly pointed out by the learned Counsel appearing for the petitioners, the learned Judicial Magistrate has not observed in the order impugned that he was satisfied that the application prima fac ie disclosed that the petitioners were committing an act of domestic violence.
Argument	In this context, the learned Counsel for the petitioners cited an authority in <CITATION_367512> , rep.by Revenue Inspector, <NAME> and <NAME>.
Argument	, wherein this <ORG> dealing with the criminal proceedings under Section 145 of the Code of Criminal Procedure observed that any preliminary order passed under Section 145(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure without specifically stating the grounds of his satisfaction would amount to non-compliance of the provision under Section 145(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
Argument	12.
Argument	Section 145(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that the learned Judicial Magistrate should not only be satisfied with the grounds set up that the dispute likely to cause a breach of peace exists concerning any land or water, but shall also state specifically the grounds of being so satisfied.
Argument	Under such circumstances, this <ORG> in the aforesaid authority has observed that the preliminary order passed un der Section 145(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure without stating the grounds of his satisfaction would amount to non-compliance of the provision under Section 145(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	Under Section 23(2) of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005, the learned Magistrate has to pass a protection order, when he is satisfied that the application prima facie discloses that the respondent is committing or has committed an act of domestic violence or that there is likelihood of commission of such domestic violence before ever he passes an ex-parte order on the basis of an affidavit filed by the wife.
Precedent	14.
Argument	What is important is the materials which formed a basis for the satisfaction of the learned Judicial Magistrate before passing an ex-parte order will have to be considered by the Court and not the parrot like repetition of the provision to the effect that he was satisfied based on the averments found in the application.
Argument	In this case it is found that the various averments  found in the application clearly disclose the commission of the act of domestic violence and the same has been incorporated in the order impugned.
Argument	The absence of the phrase "Magistrate is satisfied" need not be found incorporated in the order passed under Section 23(2) of the Act.
Argument	If the material analysed by the learned Judicial Magistrate discloses the allegation of commission of an act of violence, he is well within his powers to pass protection order under Section 23(2) of the Act.
Argument	15.
Argument	Of course, the learned Judicial Magistrate is empowered to consider the suggestion emanated from the <NAME> to provide alternate accommodation as contemplated under Section 19(f) of the Act, while passing a final order in the main application.
Argument	It is after all an order passed ex-parte on the strength of the averment found in the affidavit filed by the aggrieved wife.
RulingByLowerCourt	Such a suggestion can be seriously considered by the Judicial Magistrate during the final disposal of the main application.
RulingByLowerCourt	In view of the above, the Court fi nds that the learned Judicial Magistrate has rightly passed the protection order.
RulingByLowerCourt	The said order does not suffer from any illegality or impropriety.
RulingByLowerCourt	Therefore, the question of setting aside the said order does not arise.
Argument	16.
Argument	Coming to the order passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate giving a direction to the police authority concerned to break open the lock and give protection to the respondent to reside in the subject house, the <ORG> finds that the learned Judicial Magistrate has ample power under Section 19(7) of the Act to give any order to the officer incharge to assist him in the implementation of the protection order.
Argument	The interim residence order is one of the protection orders.
Argument	Of course, the said provision does not specifically state that the learned Judicial Magistrate may direct the officer incharge to break open the lock.
Argument	To give effect to the protection order passed ex-parte, the learned Judicial Magistrate will have to necessarily pass an order break open the lock by the police.
Argument	If the submis sion made on the side of the petitioners that the learned Judicial Magistrate is not empowered to give any order to break open the lock is accepted, then in all cases, the <NAME> will lock the house and walk off and thereby depriving the wife from enjoying the protection order passed under the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Court finds that the aforesaid submission is against the spirit of the object and scheme of the benevolent Special Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	The impugned order would reflect that the application seeking to break open the lock was filed on 9.1.2008 and the order thereon was passed on 11.1.2008.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course, the impugned order would reveal that the main application was posted to 21.1.2008 for the counter on the side of the petitioners herein.
RatioOfTheDecision	The respondent cannot be made to wait and loiter in the street till the petitioners herein file their counter in the main application.
RatioOfTheDecision	On account of some urgency which has arisen, the interim applications are filed by the wife seeking protection order and also seeking assistance to implemen t the protection order.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the submission made by the learned Counsel for the petitioners that the learned Judicial Magistrate should have waited till the counter is filed by the petitioners herein in the main application, is found not sustainable.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a case where the petitioners also were heard before ever an order was passed.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course, some comment is made by the learned Counsel for the petitioners that the learned Judicial Magistrate was pleased to pass an order at 8.30 p.m. on 11.1.2008.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Court is all praise for the learned Judicial Magistrate for passing the order at 8.30 p.m. without minding the time, considering the emergency in the application filed by the respondent.
RatioOfTheDecision	As otherwise the wife should take shelter only in the platform.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is nothing wrong in passing an order at 8.30 p.m., that too after hearing both sides.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Court finds that the order to break open the lock has been passed only after weighing the merits of the application.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no impropriety or illegality in t he said order.
RulingByPresentCourt	Therefore, both the Criminal Revision Cases fail and they stand dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	Consequently, the connected Miscellaneous Petitions are also dismissed.
