Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	The first defendant in these suits is the present <ORG>, an impartible estate.
Fact	The 1st plaintiff in O.S.
Fact	No.
Fact	9 of 1910 and the sole plaintiff in O.S.
Fact	No.
Fact	17 of 1910 are brothers of the 1st defendant.
Fact	The 2nd plaintiff in O.S.
Fact	No.
Fact	9 of 1910, is the minor adopted son of the 1st plaintiff.
Fact	They brought these suits for a declaration of their rights to maintenance at the rate of Rs.
Fact	650 per mensem and for recovery of the same with arrears and interest as a charge upon the estate.
Fact	They also claimed priority over the mortgage rights of certain mortgagees who were made parties to the suit and thus raised questions which need not now be considered as they are not pressed in these appeals.
Fact	The 1st defendant acknowledged that the plaintiffs were entitled to be maintained out of the estate but pleaded that the financial condition of the estate was such that he could not afford to give his brothers more than Rs.
Fact	400 per mensem which was in fact the amount that they were receiving d uring the period when the estate was under the management of <ORG>.
Fact	The lower Court gave the plaintiffs a decree for Rs.
Fact	400 per mensem during their joint and several lives for the maintenance of their branches of the family and directed that the sums due on account of past and future maintenance at this rate should be recoverable as a charge upon the estate.
Fact	From this.
Fact	plaintiffs' appeal on the ground that the amount awarded should not have been less than Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	650.
RatioOfTheDecision	2.
RatioOfTheDecision	The position taken for the appellants is this.
Fact	The present 1st defendant brought a suit O.S.
Fact	No.
Fact	12 of 1890 for partition against the then <NAME> to which all the brothers were made parties.
Fact	It ended in a compromise in which the estate was declared to be impartible and the succession to it was declared to be governed by rules of primogeniture, simultaneously it was agreed that <NAME> brothers, mcluding the present plaintiffs and the 1st defendant and their male descendants should be entitled to a mainten ance allowance from the income of the estate of Rs.
Fact	600 per mensem for the first ten years and of Rs.
Precedent	700 per mensem thereafter.
Precedent	<ORG> passed a decree in terms of the compromise but on appeal <ORG> held in <CITATION_287864> (1894) I.L.R.
Precedent	18 M. 410 that the stipulations which were outside the scope of the suit should not have been embodied in the decree and these included the stipulations as to allowances, so they were excluded.
Precedent	3.
Precedent	After the death of <NAME>, <NAME> succeeded to the <NAME>, and during his time two of the brothers of <NAME> viz., the present 4th defendant and the <NAME> of the 6th defendant brought suits against <NAME> in respect of their maintenance allowances and obtained consent decrees for Rs.
Fact	650 per mensem.
Fact	: The other brothers, viz., the 1st plaintiff in <ORG> and the plaintiff in <ORG> and the present Zamindar got registered agreements executed (Exhibits A.C. and I) with <NAME> in similar terms of, Rs.
Fact	650 per men sem.
Fact	On the death of <NAME> the 1st defendant became <NAME>.
Argument	4.
Argument	Now it is urged that the appellants have by virtue of exhibits A and C become creditors of the Estate and not mere maintenance holders, that the agreements are binding on all the successors of the <NAME> who executed them and that there- fore no less sum than what was agreed upon therein can now be given as maintenance.
Argument	Further it is argued that the compromise having been entered into as a settlement of certain claims to portions of the estate is binding on all who took part in it and their representatives, and creates vested rights in favour of those whose rights are declared in it.
Argument	5.
Argument	Lastly it is contended on the evidence that the amount claimed was not excessive and that the estate could well afford it.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the last point I agree with the Subordinate Judge's opinion that nothing more than Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	400 is proper and reasonable for the reasons given in paragraph 10 of his judgment.
RatioOfTheDecision	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	As for the other points now taken in the appeals it is not iceable that Exhibit A, though purporting to have been executed in pursuance of the razinamah in O.S.
RatioOfTheDecision	No.
RatioOfTheDecision	12 of 1890, contains terms very different from the- compromise petition (Exhibit D).
RatioOfTheDecision	Not only is the amount of maintenance different in the two documents as I have already stated, but the periodical instalments in which payments are to be made are different, and Exhibit D states the source to be the income of the Zamindari whereas Exhibits A. and C. provide for recovery of the allowance from the estate as well as its incomes.
RatioOfTheDecision	Exhibits A. and C. are three years later than Exhibit D.  7.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is thus impossible to treat Exhibits A. and C. as having the same force and binding character as a decree in a suit terminating litigation and compromising a bona fide claim to property.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nor can the appellants rely on those terms of the compromise (Exhibit P) which have not passed into a decree or order of Court so far as they affect the immoveable property comprised in the document, as the agreement of compromise was no t registered.
Precedent	<CITATION_1758535> (1911) I.L.R 36 M. 46.
Precedent	Exhibits A. and C are registered and purport to be agreements relating to the payment of maintenance allowances, as is distinctly stated in the first clause of the document.
Precedent	8.
Precedent	An amount provided as maintenance for a member of a family does not lose its character as a maintenance allowance by being embodied in an instrument or decree, the character, I mean of being liable to be increased or decreased under a cha'nge of circumstances, (Vide Gopikabai v. Dattatraya (1900) I.L.R.
Precedent	24 B.
Precedent	386.
Precedent	<CITATION_1356963> (1904) 14 M.L.J.
Argument	339 and Maharajah Greeschand Roy v. <NAME> (1835) W.R. 598 (P.C.).
Argument	For these reasons alone I consider that the Subordinate Judge had power to direct the 1st defendant to pay maintenance, at a lower rate than Rs.
Argument	650.
Argument	But as reliance is placed on the binding character of the registered documents under which it is claimed that plaintiffs and their male heirs have acquired a right to an hereditary annuity for all time, I may ob serve that in so far as Exhibit A. and C. provide that <NAME> and <NAME> and their male descendants have a vested right to recover the fixed allowances through the present Zamindar and after him through the rightful owners of the Zamindari or their heirs, assignees, executors, administrators, trustees, etc.
Argument	; from the estate and its incomes by declaring a recurring charge on the Kalahasti estate, these documents create a future interest' in" immoveable property in favour of persons unborn, and thus impose a restraint upon alienation which is contrary to the principles of Hindu Law.
Precedent	In excluding females and collaterals they provide for a line of succession not according to law, and they are therefore invalid' (<NAME> Law of Perpetuities in British India, pp.
Precedent	123 to 128 and the <ORG> decision in <ORG> v. Sidhesswari Debt (1888) I.L.R.
Precedent	16 C. 71. .
Precedent	9.
Precedent	I would therefore dismiss these appeals with costs.
Precedent	10.
RulingByLowerCourt	The 3rd Respondent in Appeal 216 who got a consent" decree in  O.S.
RulingByLowerCourt	No.
RulingByLowerCourt	33 of 1895 (Exhibit E) on 22nd April 1896 for maintenance allowance of Rs.
Argument	650 per mensem has filed a memorandum of objections claiming priority over the appellant's right on the ground of his decree being prior in point of time to Exhibit C which is dated 17th November 1896.
Argument	11.
Precedent	In these suits it is unnecessary to determine questions of priority between the various maintenance holders inter se seeing that their right to receive maintenance rests in the first instance not on their decrees or agreements but on their relationship to the owner of the Zamindari.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	The objection memorandum in App.
Precedent	216 of 1911 is for this reason dismissed with costs.
Precedent	That in Appeal 217 is out of time and is also dismissed with costs.
Precedent	Sankaran Nair, J.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	I agree.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	I think that considering the income of the Zamindari Rs.
Precedent	400 is a fair rate of maintenance.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	The terms of the compromise in O.S.
Precedent	No.
Precedent	12 of 1890 relating to maintenance were not embodied in the decree.
Precedent	It is not those terms that are now sought to b e enforced.
Precedent	The subsequent registered agreement of 1896 is so far as the rate is concerned only binding on the Zamindar who executed it.
Precedent	It is not shown that it was executed under circumstances which would make it binding on the succeeding Zamindars who take the property in their own right.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	It was not contended, nor could it be successfully contended, that the maintenance formed such a charge on the Zamindari as would preclude the Zamindar for the time being from alienating portions of it for necessary purposes.
RulingByPresentCourt	It would be unreasonable to hold in the circumstances that the maintenance is a fixed unvarying amount.
