Fact	JUDGMENT Brishketu Saran <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	Messrs Shri Madhav <ORG> Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as 'the <ORG>') are engaged in the manufacture of Maida, which is item no.
Fact	1-F of the First <ORG> attached to the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Excise Act ') and bolts, nuts and screws which are item no.
Fact	52 of the said <ORG> as also certain articles which are included under item no.
Fact	68 of the <ORG>.
Fact	The details of the other items excluding those under items 1-F and 68 are given in annexure 4 appended to the writ application.
Fact	2.
Fact	By a notification issued by <ORG> dated 10th August, 1971 item no.
Fact	1-F of the First <ORG> to the Excise Act , has been exempted from payment of duty under Sub-rule (1) of Rule 8 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 (hereinafter referred to as 'the rules'), copy of which is Annexure 1.
Fact	Thereafter by a notification dated 18th June, 1977, under Rule 8(1) of the Rules (copy of which is annexure 2) <ORG>  exempted goods falling under item 68 of the First Schedule, if to be utilised for home consumption and if the total value of all excisable goods in the preceding financial year docs not exceed Rupees thirty lakhs.
Argument	The petitioner claims that under the aforesaid notification the total value of Maida manufactured by it in the preceding financial year could not be included in determining the exemption.
Fact	The Assistant Collector of Central Excise (respondent no.
Fact	3), however, asserts that the value of Maida cleared in the previous financial year shall be taken into account for determining the exemption under the aforesaid notification.
Fact	Hence this application.
Argument	3.
Statute	The Excise Act , under Section 2(d) , defines excisable goods, and Section 3 is the charging section which provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as may be prescribed, duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt, which are produced or manufactured at the rates set forth in the First Schedule, and it further empowers dif ferent tariff values to be fixed for different classes or descriptions of the same article.
Statute	Section 6 authorises <ORG>, by notification from such date as may be specified in it, to have the production or manufacture or any process of production or manufacture of any specified goods included in the First Schedule, licence the production or of salt petre or any specified component parts or ingredients of such goods or of specified containers of such goods in accordance with the terms and conditions granted under this Act.
Statute	This First Schedule attached to the Act details the items of goods as also the basic and additional rates of duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears that to begin with the First Schedule contained 11 items which has now increased to 68 items.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 37 empowers <ORG> to make rules and under Section 38 such rules have to be laid before <ORG> while it is in session for a total period of 30 days which may be comprised in one or two more successive sessions.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Hous es have the power to modify or annul the Rules.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under Rule 8(1) <ORG> is authorised from time to time by notification in the official gazette to exempt, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification, any excisable goods from the whole or any part of the duty leviable on such goods, The aforesaid two notifications, annexures 1 and 2, have been issued under this provision.
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
RatioOfTheDecision	Relevant facts leading to this application are that, as already pointed out earlier, by a notification copy of which is annexure I, Maida was exempted from the duty of excise leviable thereon.
Fact	Thereafter, in 1977, came the notification copy of which is annexure 2, granting exemption under certain conditions to articles manufactured under item no.
RatioOfTheDecision	68.
RatioOfTheDecision	These items manufactured by the mill are <ORG> rivets, castings, machinery parts, job work etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	Item 68 under the Schedule provided at the relevant period the rate of duty as 2% ad valorem.
Fact	On the 7th or 8th of December, 1979, the Superintendent of <ORG>  and <ORG>, Patna City, respondent no.
Fact	4, issued a letter to the petitioners that since the annual turnover of the mills including the sale of Maida (which is item 1-F in the Schedule) was more than Rs.
Fact	30,00,000/- the mills were not entitled to the exemption from the payment of duty with respect to item No.
Fact	68 of the Schedule.
Fact	Copy of this letter is Annexure 5.
Fact	The mills did not accept the interpretation to annexure 2 and submitted in reply that the C.E.
Fact	authorities were wrong in refusing to give the exemption, whereupon the mills have been served with an order of the Assistant Collector, <ORG>, Patna (respondent no.
Fact	3) stating that the petitioners were liable for the financial year 1976-77 to <ORG> Duty at the rate of 2% ad valorem on goods manufactured by them under item 68; copy of the communication is annexure 6.
Argument	5.
Argument	A counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the respondents stating that the exemption granted by annexure 2 would not exempt the liability of the mills from p aying the duty upon goods, under the head, item no.
Argument	68, manufactured by them, inasmuch as the value of <ORG> produced in the previous financial year had to be taken into account.
Argument	It is not necessary to refer in detail to the counter affidavit as the facts are not in dispute.
Argument	6.
Argument	Before proceeding to consider the merits of the rival claims made, a preliminary point raised on behalf of the respondents by the learned <ORG> for <ORG> has to be disposed of.
Argument	It was submitted that as the <ORG> had not availed of the alternative remedies provided under the Excise Act itself, the present application was not maintainable.
Argument	Reference was made to Sections 35 and 35A as also 36 of the Act, which provide for appeals and revisions to <ORG> as also to <ORG> itself.
Argument	This preliminary objection was resisted by <NAME>, who submitted that where a fundamental right is involved, consideration of alternative remedy is irrelevant, and he referred to a number of  decisions in support of this submission.
Argument	He further submitted that once a writ petition had been admitted it could not be thrown away on the ground of alternative remedy.
Argument	In support of this, learned counsel relied upon a <ORG> decision of this <ORG> in <CITATION_132535791> , 1976 BBC J 1 where it was held :  "...it is well established by several authorities of the Supreme <ORG> that alternative remedy is not a bar to the exercise of power by this <ORG> under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution.
Argument	Whether such an application should not be entertained, as there is an alternative remedy, should be considered at the time of admission of the writ application, and once the writ application is admitted and heard on merits, it should not be rejected merely on that ground."
Argument	In this connection it was further observed that at the stage of final hearing a writ application should not be dismissed on the ground that the petitioners have not availed of the alternative remedy provided under the enactment itself.
Argument	In sup port, reliance was placed upon the case of <CITATION_616577> , A.I.R.
Argument	1971 Supreme Court 33 where it was observed that merely because a revision application could have been moved under Section 35 of the Income-tax Act but was not moved, <ORG> would not be justified in dismissing as not maintainable a petition which was entertained and was heard on merits.
Argument	Therefore, it would not be permissible now to reject this application on the ground that the petitioners have availed of the alternative remedies provided under the Excise Act itself.
Argument	7.
Argument	It may further be pointed out that in paragraph 27 of the writ petition it has been asserted that the petitioners have learnt that a communication bearing No.
Argument	F.No.
Argument	3.36/8/77-TRU, dated 20th July, 1977, the Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, <ORG> has advised all the Collectors of Central Excise in India that in computing the sum of Rupees thirty lakhs as per the proviso to the notification copy of which is annexu re 2, the value of all excisable goods whether exempted or not exempted, should be taken into account, and in that view of the advice, the remedy before any of the superior officers of the <ORG> would be futile.
Argument	In the counter-affidavit filed by the respondents in paragraph 21 it is stated that the aforesaid statement is not admitted and that the decision of respondent no, 3 is based upon a correct interpretation of the notification.
Argument	If there be such a communication as mentioned above, it is obvious, any appeal or revision to the authorities as contemplated in Sections 35 , 35A and 36 would be of no avail.
Argument	8.
Argument	In support of this application on merits, Mr. <NAME> has made two submissions ; namely, that Maida having been exempted from excise duty was not "excisable goods" the value of which could be taken into account for the annual turnover.
Argument	The second submission is that even after Maida has been exempted from the excise duty, it cannot be included in the expression "all excisable goods cleared" used  in the first proviso to the notification (annexure 2).
Argument	9.
RatioOfTheDecision	For the sake of convenience I will first consider the second submission made on behalf of the petitioners.
Statute	Before doing so, it would be relevant to quote the notification which reads thus :-  "In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-rule (1) of Rule 8 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 <ORG> hereby exempts goods falling under Item No.
Statute	68 of the First Schedule to the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944  and cleared for home consumption on or after the first day of April in any financial year, by or on behalf of manufacturer from one or more factories from the whole of the duty of excise leviable thereon, if an officer not below the rank of an Assistant Collector of Central Excise is satisfied that the sum total of the value of the capital investment made from time to time on plant and machinery installed in the industrial unit in which the goods, under clearance, are manufactured, is not more than Rupees Ten lakhs :  Provided that t his exemption shall not be applicable to a manufacturer if the total value of all excisable goods cleared by him or on his behalf in the preceding financial year had exceeded Rupees Thirty Lakhs :  Provided further that the exemption contained to this notification shall apply only to the first clearance for home consumption by, or on behalf of, the manufacturer referred to in this notification, from one or more factories, upto a value not exceeding Rupees Thirty Lakhs during a financial year subsequent to 1977-78 and upto a value not exceeding rupees Twenty-four lakhs during the period commencing on the 18th day of June, 1977 and ending on the 31st day of March, 1978.
Statute	Explanation :-For the purposes of determining the value of any capital investment, only the face value of such investment at the time when such investment was made shall be taken into account."
Argument	It is not disputed that the goods falling under item no.
Argument	68 of the First Schedule relating to the mills are for home consumption and that the capital i nvestment made from time to time on plant and machinery installed in the industrial unit of the mills in which the goods are manufactured is more than Rupees Ten Lakhs.
Argument	In other words, the conditions to be fulfilled under paragraph 1 of the notification are fulfilled.
Argument	The controversy arises with regard to the meaning and effect of the proviso thereafter, which says that the exemption shall not be available to a manufacturer if the total value in the preceding financial year of "all excisable goods cleared by him" had exceeded Rupees Thirty lakhs.
Argument	Obviously in calculating the amount of Rupees Thirty lakhs the goods manufactured by the mills under item 52 has got to be included.
Argument	The question is whether, in computing this amount of Rupees Thirty lakhs, Maida manufactured and sold during the period by the mill will be included or not.
Argument	According to Mr. <NAME>, the word "cleared" in the Rules and Notifications issued thereunder is used only for those "excisable goods" on which excise duty is actually paid and as no  excise duty has to be paid on Maida, it would not be included in the expression "all excisable goods cleared".
Argument	Learned counsel says that even if Maida in spite of the exemption, is "excisable goods" as defined in Section 2(d) of the Excise Act, it cannot be referred as excisable goods cleared.
RatioOfTheDecision	"Cleared" in the context means, free from obstruction or to free from obligation or encumbrance.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, excisable goods cleared will only mean those excisable goods on which excise duty is payable and has been paid, that is, is free from obstruction or obligation or encumbrance.
Statute	10.
Statute	In this context, reference was made to Rule 9 of the Rules, which provides that excisable goods shall not be removed from any place where they are produced, cured or manufactured or any premises appurtenant thereto, which may be specified by the Collector in this behalf, whether for consumption, export or manufacture of any other commodity until the excise duty leviable thereon has been paid at such place and in such manner as is presc ribed in these Rules or as the Collector may require.
Statute	Rule 52 further provides that when a manufacturer desires to remove the goods on payment of duty either from the place or premises specified under Rule 9 or from a store room or other place of storage approved by the Collector he shall make an application in triplicate to the proper officer in the proper form and shall deliver it to the officer at least 15 hours before it is intended to remove the goods.
Statute	The officer shall thereupon assess the amount of duty due on the goods and on production of evidence that the same has been paid into the treasury or paid to the account of the Collector in <ORG> or <ORG>, allow the goods to be "cleared".
Argument	Placing reliance upon this provision, Mr. <NAME> submitted that the word "cleared" is used to signify permission to remove such excisable goods only after payment of excise duty, meaning thereby, only after excise duty levied has already been paid.
Argument	11.
Statute	Rule 52-A provides for goods to  be delivered on gate pass and sub-rule (4) reads thus :-  "Gate passes shall be maintained in two sets ; one for clearance for home consumption and the other for clearance for export.
Statute	Each gate pass shall bear a printed serial number running for the whole year beginning on the first January or such other date as approved by the proper officer as may correspond to the accounting year of the factory.
Statute	Only one gate pass book of each type shall be used by a factory for an excisable commodity at any one time unless otherwise specially permitted by the Collector in writing in respect of factories having more than one section from which clearances take place."
RatioOfTheDecision	Mr. <NAME> submitted that the word "clearance" has been used here for the removal of such goods on which either excise duty has to be paid or which are being permitted to be removed for export.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has, therefore, been urged before us that the word "cleared" as used in the notification signifies the removal of an obstruction which is in the way on account of  the imposition of excise duty and which obstruction is removed when the excise duty has been paid.
RatioOfTheDecision	12.
Argument	The learned Standing Counsel on the other hand contends that the word "cleared" used in the notification has no special or particular meaning.
Argument	It refers to all excisable goods which are moved out.
Argument	According to him "all excisable goods "cleared" in the proviso would mean all such goods removed irrespective of the consideration whether excise duty has been paid or such duty is exempted.
Argument	In other words, Standing Counsel submits that if Maida comes within the definition of "exacisable goods" then even if payment of excise duty is exempted, its value would be included in computing the amount of Rupees Thirty Lakhs.
Argument	He further emphasises that the word "cleared" as used in the proviso could not relate to excise duty actually paid as the expression used in the proviso is "all excisable goods cleared by him".
RatioOfTheDecision	It is said that the clearance refers to the clearance by the manufacturer and, therefore, the word "cleared " here means "removed".
RatioOfTheDecision	13.
RatioOfTheDecision	The submissions made by both sides are plausible.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1350547> , A.I.R.
Argument	1957 Supreme <ORG> 657, Bhagwati, J., speaking for the <ORG> ruled :-  "It is no doubt true that in construing fiscal Statutes and in determining the liability of a subject to tax one must have regard to the strict letter of the law and not merely to the spirit of the Statute or the substance of the law.
Argument	If the <ORG> satisfies the <ORG> that the case falls strictly within the provisions of the law, the subject can be taxed.
RatioOfTheDecision	If, on the other hand, the case is not covered within the four corners of the provisions of the taxaing Statute, no tax can be imposed by inference or by analogy or by trying to probe into the intentions of the legislature and by considering what was the substance of the matter."
RatioOfTheDecision	In the case of <CITATION_1849088> A.I.R.
RatioOfTheDecision	1976 Supreme <ORG> 1503, it was laid down ;  "It is well settled that in case of fiscal Statute the provisions must be strictly interpreted giving every benefit of  doubt to the subject and lightening as far as possible the burden of court fees on the litigant".
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, by strictly interpreting and giving every benefit of doubt to the subject, I am of the opinion that the proviso to annexure 2 refers only to such excisable goods on which excise duty has been paid.
Argument	The contention that out-turn of Maida in the preceding financial year by the mills could not be taken into account for calculating the total output of "excisable goods cleared" must be sustained and Annexure 6 appended to the writ application is quashed and set aside.
Argument	14.
Argument	Reverting to the first submission, Section 2(d) reads "excisable goods" specified in the First Schedule as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
Argument	On behalf of the petitioners it is said that excisable goods under the definition has two attributes, namely : (i) goods which are specified in the First Schedule of the Act, and (ii) which are subject to a duty of excise.
Argument	The argument proceeds that all the goods specified in the Fir st Schedule are not necessarily subject to a duty of excise.
Precedent	There are some goods mentioned therein where the duty of excise is nil, as for example item No.
Precedent	4 (1) (7) i.e.
Precedent	unmanufactured tobacco if used for agricultural purpose.
Argument	It is further submitted that even if there are goods in the First Schedule which are subject to a duty of excise, such duty, at times, is exempted under Rule 8(1) of the Rules.
Argument	Therefore, excisable goods not only refer to goods specified in the First Schedule but those goods must also be subject to duty of excise and where either of the conditions is missing, it is not excisable goods.
Argument	In support of this contention, reliance is placed on a Single Judge decision of <ORG> in the case of <CITATION_1309362> .
Argument	1972 Tax Law Reports 1771.
Argument	This report was not available here but a copy of the judgment was given to us where it was observed :  "On this observation, it is arguable that the goods manufactured by the petitioner ceased to be "excisable goods" after they were exempted  from payment of duty, for the exemption notification was entitled to be regarded as part of the Act itself.
Argument	If the Act and the <ORG> are read together, the effect is the goods exempted were not "excisable goods" within the meaning of Section 2(d) of the Act."
Argument	15.
Argument	The Standing Counsel, on the other hand, submitted that the expression "as being subject to a duty of excise" is descriptive of the goods mentioned in the First Schedule and its purpose is to include in the definition of excisable goods only those goods which are subject, to a duty of excise under the Schedule itself.
Argument	He has submitted that from the year 1944 itself when the Act was first made, there was at least one item in the Schedule where the duty of excise was nil which was item 8 (3) Palmyra Sugar.
Argument	It is further argued that when the rate of excise duty is prescribed under the Schedule of the Act then such goods are subject to a duty of excise and if some of those goods are exempted by a notification under Rule 8(1) they still continue t o be excisable goods on which excise duty is exempted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Exemption of such duty, it is submitted, is the result of an eclipse caused by the notification under Rule 8(1).
RatioOfTheDecision	The Standing Counsel relied upon a Bench decision of <ORG> in the case of <CITATION_1632366> , 1978 ELT (J 57), a copy of which has been given to us, as the report is not available, where it was held that the character of excisable goods does not depend on the actual levy a duty but on the description as excisable goods in the First Schedule to the Act and any exemption does not change.
RatioOfTheDecision	the nature and character of the goods as excisable goods within the meaning of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
RatioOfTheDecision	As I have already held that the petitioners are entitled to the relief sought for in this application, as at present advised, I do not consider it necessary to decide this point.
RatioOfTheDecision	17.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result, this application is allowed and the impugned order is quashed and set aside.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the circumstances of the case, however, I would make no order as to costs.
RatioOfTheDecision	La lit <NAME>, <NAME>I agree with my learned brother on both the questions decided by him but I would like to add a few words.
RatioOfTheDecision	19.
Argument	With respect to the preliminary objection taken by the Standing Counsel, appearing on behalf of <ORG>, regarding the maintainability of the writ application, Mr. <NAME> contended that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the provisions for appeal and revision do not provide an effective alternative remedy and since no investigation of fact is involved in the case, this <ORG> should not refuse to exercise its constitutional powers.
Argument	The notification (Annexure 2) has been erroneously interpreted by the authority and the impugned order must, therefore, be held to be without jurisdiction.
Argument	This <ORG>, therefore, should not decline to give to the petitioner the relief under Article 226 of the Constitution.
Argument	He also cited a number of decisions in support of his argument.
Argument	20.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> advanced a further argument that as the writ application was admitted by  this Court, it should not be dismissed on the basis of the preliminary objection now.
Precedent	He placed reliance on the decisions in <CITATION_616577> , A.I.R.
Precedent	1971 Supreme Court 33, <CITATION_132535791> , 1976 B.B.C.
Precedent	J.
Precedent	1 and <CITATION_1323341> ., A.I.R.
Precedent	1973 Madhya Pradesh 175.
Argument	21.
Argument	The appellant in <CITATION_616577> (supra) was aggrieved by the assessment order passed under the Income Tax Act and applied for rectification of a mistake in the order of assessment which he claimed, was apparent from the record.
Argument	The Income Tax Officer declined to grant any relief and the assessee moved <ORG> under Article 226 of the Constitution challenging the order of the Income Tax Officer.
Argument	Having lost the case before <ORG>, he approached <ORG> and was granted special leave.
Argument	<ORG> accepted the claim of the appellant, allowed the appeal and while so doing held as under:-  "It is true that a petition to revise the order could be moved before the Commissioner of Income Tax.
Argument	But Hri day <NAME> moved a petition in <ORG> and <ORG> entertained that petition.
Argument	If <ORG> had not entertained his petition, Hriday <NAME> could have moved the Commissioner in revision, because at the date on which the petition was move 1 the period prescribed by Section 33-A of the Act had not expired.
RulingByPresentCourt	We are unable.
Precedent	to hold that because a revision application could have been moved for an order correcting the order of the Income Tax Officer under Section 35 , but was not moved, <ORG> would be justified in dismissing as not maintainable the petition which was entertained and was heard on the merits".
Precedent	22.
Precedent	<CITATION_132535791> , 1976 B.B.C.
Precedent	J.
Argument	1 the petitioner challenged before this Court an order of confiscation passed under Section 6A of the Essential Commodities Act and it was pointed out that Section 60 of the Act provided for an appeal against such an order to be filed within one month from the date of its communication, which the petitioner had failed to avail.
Argument	Th e petitioner had approached <ORG> within the period prescribed for filing the appeal and the writ application was admitted and was heard after the expiry of the said period.
Precedent	Relying upon the decision of <ORG> in <NAME> case (supra) <ORG> held that the writ petition could not be dismissed on the ground of alternative remedy.
Precedent	23.
Argument	In the present case also, the petitioner filed a wait application before the expiry of the period of limitation which is admittedly three months as mentioned in Section 35 and the case was admitted and an interim order was passed.
Argument	Now when the period of limitation is over, it will not be a proper exercise of the jurisdiction to dismiss the application merely on the ground that the petitioner should have filed an appeal.
Argument	The preliminary objection raised on behalf of the respondents must, therefore, be rejected.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	I entirely agree with the view expressed by my learned Brother on the second point urged on behalf of the petitioner, as discus sed in paragraphs 9 to 12 of his judgment.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	I wish to express my opinion on the first question raised on behalf of the petitioners also as formulated in paragraph 3 of the judgment of my learned Brother.
Precedent	26.
Precedent	The expression "excisable goods" has been defined in Section 2(d) in the following terms :  "Excisable goods means goods specified in the First Schedule as being subject to a duty of excise and includes salt".
Argument	Mr. <NAME> contended that after exemption was granted with respect to <ORG> by Annexure 1, the article ceased to be subject to a duty of excise and consequently cannot be assumed to be covered by the expression.
Argument	The factual position in this case admittedly is that if the sale of <ORG> in the preceding financial year is taken into account, the total turnover would exceed Rs.
Argument	30 lakhs but if <ORG> be excluded, the turnover will be below that figure, and consequently the first proviso in annexure 2 would have no application at all.
Argument	The question to be answered, therefore, is as to whether <ORG> co ntinued to be excisable goods even after Annexure 1.
Argument	According to the petitioner, the liability in regard to the payment of excise duty is an essential condition for bringing an article within the expression, and, as by Annexure 1, Maida was exempted from duty in 1971, it cannot be treated as excisable goods since then.
Argument	The learned counsel also tried to take help from the language used in Section 6 as it stood earlier and as it now stands after amendment.
Argument	He said that if the intention was to include within the expression all the articles specified in the First Schedule then there was no necessity of including the 'words "as being subject to a duty of excise" in the definition.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> strenuously contended on the well-established principles of interpretation that the legislature must be presumed to have used each word in a Statute for a purpose and that every part of a statutory provision should be given effect to.
Argument	It was urged that if the intention had been to, treat every article mentioned in the schedul e as excisable goods without reference to the question as to whether duty was payable or not, it could have been expressed in a more direct straight forward manner without unnecessarily making a reference to payment of duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	27.
RatioOfTheDecision	On a close examination of the Act along with the First Schedule arid the rules, I do not find myself in a position to accept the petitioner's stand.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that the expression is not intended to include every article mentioned in the First Schedule, but at the same time it is also clear that the definition is not entirely dependent upon liability to pay duty for if that were so, the sub-section would not have mentioned the First Schedule.
RatioOfTheDecision	A reference has been made to both the First Schedule and to the liability in regard to the excise duty and they have been connected by the every significant words "as being".
RatioOfTheDecision	Giving effect to every word in the sub-section, its meaning appears to be that all goods which are subject to duty by virtue of being included in the First Schedule must be  treated as excisable.
RatioOfTheDecision	The second part is merely descriptive.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether a particular article is subject to duty or not by reason of any other provision does not appear to be relevant.
RatioOfTheDecision	What has to be seen is whether by reason of its being included in the First Schedule, it is subject to a duty or not.
RatioOfTheDecision	A reference to the Schedule indicates that Maida is still retained there as item 1 with the rate of duty as 10 paise per kilogram in column 3.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, therefore, specified in the First Schedule as being subject to a duty and comes squarely within the definition.
RatioOfTheDecision	28.
RatioOfTheDecision	Let us test the conclusion to which I have arrived above in the light of the argument addressed on behalf of the petitioner.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has been contended that on this view the words "as being subject to duty of excise" are rendered superfluous.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fallacy in this argument is that it is assumed that every item mentioned in the First Schedule is automatically subject to duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not so.
RatioOfTheDecision	In Item No.
RatioOfTheDecision	60, several articles are excluded from the duty and even bef ore this item was included in the <ORG>, there was other articles not subject to duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	Presently, against tobacco if used for agricultural purpose as mentioned in item 4(7), the rate of duty is mentioned as nil.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the past, <ORG>, now mentioned in item 1(3) earlier at one point of time as mentioned in item 8(3) also was not subject to duty.
RatioOfTheDecision	29.
RatioOfTheDecision	I, therefore, do not find any substance in the first point urged on behalf of the petitioner.
RulingByPresentCourt	However, since the second question has been decided in its favour, the writ application succeeds.
