Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, C.J.
Argument	1.
Argument	This appeal originally came on before <NAME>, J., who considered it desirable that it should be heard by a Division Bench in view of the conflict between decisions of this Court.
Argument	2.
Fact	The appeal is against an order of the Subordinate Judge of Ottapalam remanding a suit to the District Munsiff of Chowghat for disposal on the merits.
Fact	The suit was filed by the first respondent for eviction of the appellant (first defendant) from a building that had been leased to him by the first respondent's predecessor in 1936.
Fact	There were also prayers for arrears of rent and for recovery of damages in respect of an annexe to the building constructed by the first respondent.
Fact	The appellant deposited into Court the entire arrears of rent and interest claimed in the suit, and therefore that part of the plaintiff's claim was satisfied.
Fact	Following the decision in <CITATION_994019> .
Fact	(1945) 1 M.L.J.
Fact	44 the District Munsiff held that the suit, so far as it related to eviction, was not maintainable, be cause of the provisions of the Madras Non-Residential Buildings Rent Control Order, 1942, hereinafter referred to as the Rent Control Order.
Fact	On appeal, the learned Subordinate Judge, following certain decisions of this <ORG> subsequent to <CITATION_994019> .
Fact	(1945) 1 M.L.J.
Fact	44 held that the suit was maintainable and passed an order of remand as mentioned above.
Fact	3.
Fact	The relevant provision of the Rent Control Order is Clause 8, the material portions of which are as follows:  * * * * * * (i) A tenant in possession of a non-residential building shall not be evicted therefrom, whether in execution of a decree, or otherwise and whether before or after the termination of the tenancy, except in accordance with the provisions of this clause.
Fact	(2) A landlord wishing to evict a tenant in possession shall apply to the Controller for a direction in that behalf.
Fact	The Controller shall make an order of eviction only if he is satisfied that one or other of the conditions mentioned is satisfied.
Fact	These conditions briefly are, no n-payment of rent, absence of readiness and willingness to pay a fair rent in future, sub-letting except under certain circumstances and user of the building for a purpose other than that for which it was leased, and absence of occupation of the building for a continuous period of four months without reasonable cause.
Fact	Then follow provisions for execution of an order for eviction passed by the Controller.
Fact	4.
Fact	Before dealing with the several decisions on the effect of this clause, let us examine its plain language.
Fact	Sub-clause (1) lays down that a tenant shall not be evicted from a non-residential building of which he is in possession.
Fact	"Evict" literally means "expel by legal process".
RatioOfTheDecision	Eviction consists in the physical act of throwing out the tenant from the building which he is occupying.
RatioOfTheDecision	This sub-clause therefore, prevents the tenant from being thrown out.
RatioOfTheDecision	One of the methods of such eviction is by the process of execution of a decree for possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	The sub-clause makes it clear that even this method is prohibi ted.
RatioOfTheDecision	The eviction can only be in accordance with the provisions of Clause 8.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is nothing in this clause, or in any of the other clauses of the Order expressly prohibiting the institution of a suit for possession, or prohibiting <ORG> from passing a decree for possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	No doubt, even though a decree for possession is passed, it may be not be capable of execution by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the passing of the decree itself is not in terms prohibited.
Precedent	5.
Precedent	Is there any such prohibition which can be necessarily implied?
Precedent	Is there anything in this clause which takes away, by necessary intendment, the ordinary jurisdiction of <ORG> to entertain a suit by a landlord for recovery of possession of his property in the occupation of a tenant ?
Precedent	As their Lordships of <ORG> pointed out in Secretary of State for <CITATION_1682326> .
Precedent	(1940) 2 M.L.J.
Precedent	140 : L.R.
Precedent	67 I.A.
Precedent	222 : I.L.R.
Precedent	1940 Mad.
Precedent	599 at 614 (P.C.)
Precedent	It is settled law that the exclusion of the jurisdiction of <ORG>s is not  to be readily inferred, but that such exclusion must either be explicitly expressed or clearly implied.
Precedent	I fail to see any such clear implication to oust the jurisdiction of the civil <ORG>.
Precedent	6.
Precedent	The earliest decision dealing with this question is that of <NAME> J., in <CITATION_994019> .
Precedent	(1945) 1 M.L.J.
Precedent	44 where the learned Judge held that there was an ouster of the jurisdiction of Civil <ORG>.
Precedent	His reasoning was as follows:  Mr. <NAME> ingeniously contended that there could be no objection to a decree being passed in this suit though after the decree it might be that he might have to go before the Controller to get possession.
Precedent	This argument fails to take note of two answers.
Precedent	One is that when a special tribunal is indicated for obtaining a particular relief, it is that tribunal that has got exclusive jurisdiction to grant that relief, and to that extent the jurisdiction of Civil <ORG> is ousted.
Precedent	Secondly, even if it is held that the Court has jurisdiction to grant a decree for evict ion it cannot be called upon to indulge in a mere pastime and pass orders which would be brutum fulmen and which cannot be carried into effect without resort being had to other persons or tribunals in whom a discretion is vested to decide if eviction is to be ordered or not.
Precedent	The remedy of the plaintiff is to go before the Controller.
Precedent	Neither of the two grounds on which the learned Judge based his conclusion commends itself to me.
Precedent	No doubt, when a special tribunal is indicated for obtaining a particular relief, that tribunal has got exclusive jurisdiction to grant that relief.
Precedent	But then that relief must be a relief not available to a party under general law.
Precedent	Further, the relief for which the special tribunal, namely, the Controller, is indicated, is the relief of eviction, that is, the actual throwing out of the tenant.
Precedent	That may only mean that a Court which passed the decree may not have jurisdiction to execute the decree for possession.
Precedent	But I fail to see how the jurisdiction of <ORG> to entertain a  suit and to pass a decree for possession is necessarily ousted.
Precedent	I cannot agree with the learned Judge that a decree for eviction which cannot be executed for a certain time, in this case during the continuance of the Rent Control Order, can be called brutum fulmen or that, passing a decree for eviction which cannot be at once executed, would be indulging in a mere pastime.
Precedent	One can easily give instances of cases in which the decrees duly passed by competent <ORG> cannot be immediately executed.
Precedent	But that fact has never been understood to mean that there is an implied ouster of jurisdiction of the <ORG> to entertain and dispose of the suit.
Precedent	This decision of the learned Judge was expressly dissented from by <NAME>, J., in the two decisions in <NAME> In re (1946) 1 M.L.J.
Precedent	134, and <CITATION_1901354> (1945) 1 M.L.J.
Precedent	135.
Precedent	He held that the language was not such as to-deprive the Civil <ORG> of their power to entertain suits for eviction and to adjudicate upon them.
Precedent	His conclusion is thus tersely expres sed:  It cannot be said that these words are wide enough to deprive <ORG> of their jurisdiction to pass decrees; all that the rule contemplates is the control of the relief of eviction.
Precedent	Apparently, it was in view of these latter decisions that <NAME>, observed as follows in a recent decision, vide <CITATION_137324> (1948) 2 M.L.J.
Precedent	359.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must now be taken to be well settled that a decree in ejectment could be passed by <ORG> and all that the order provides is that during the subsistence of the order, <ORG> cannot execute the decree but the landlord will have to take appropriate steps under the provisions of the order.
RatioOfTheDecision	There are certain general considerations which, in our opinion, support this view, namely, that the order does not take away the jurisdiction of <ORG> to entertain a suit by a landlord against the tenant and pass a decree therein for possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	Many of these considerations are found set out in an unreported decision of Wadsworth, J., in  <NAME> v. <ORG> of 1946.
RatioOfTheDecision	These are such considerations : (1) The cause of action for an application to the <ORG>ler would be quite different from the cause of action for a suit in <ORG>; (2) The grounds on which the <ORG>ler can order an eviction may be quite different from those on the strength of which <ORG> would grant a decree; (3) The failure by the plaintiff to claim a decree for eviction in <ORG> on grounds which would not justify eviction by the controller might result in grave complications by way of limitation for a suit filed after the <ORG> order ceases to operate; (4) The period during which the execution of a decree is prohibited is limited.
RatioOfTheDecision	The order itself is only for a short duration; and when it is repealed or it expires, a decree of <ORG> can be executed in the ordinary way immediately I hereafter.
RatioOfTheDecision	7.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having regard to all these considerations and to the language of Clause 8 of the order, I am of opinion  that the jurisdiction of <ORG> to entertain and pass a decree in a suit for eviction by a landlord against his tenant is not expressly or impliedly taken away by the provisions of the Rent Control Order.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RulingByPresentCourt	The Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is therefore dismissed with costs.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	I respectfully agree with my Lord in his reasoning as well as in his conclusion.
Precedent	I wish only to add a few words with reference to one particular view-point expressed by <NAME>, in <CITATION_994019> .
Precedent	(1945) 1 M.L.J.
Precedent	44.
Precedent	Possibly, the learned Judge had in mind the observation of Lord <NAME> in <CITATION_1371397> (1888) L.R.
Precedent	15 I.A.
Precedent	211 : I.L.R.
Precedent	11 All.
Precedent	47 at 56 (P.C), which I shall presently refer to, in making his observations in the case of <CITATION_994019> .
Precedent	(1945) 1 M.L.J.
Precedent	44 that even if it is held that the Court has jurisdiction to grant a decree for eviction it cannot be called upon to indulge in a mere pastime and pass orders which would be brutum fulmen.
Precedent	The observation of Lord <NAME> use that:  It would be an inconvenient state of the law if it were found necessary for a man to institute a perfectly vain litigation under peril of losing his property if he does not.
Precedent	was made in connection with the discussion of a question of limitation which arose in the case before their Lordships of <ORG> and has since been considered in a number of later decisions of <ORG> in India.
Precedent	According to the interpretation placed upon that observation of the learned Lord by these later decisions it will be too much for any litigant to contend that where the rights as between himself and his adversary have been subjected to adjudication by a competent <ORG>, limitation for other suits between the parties based on such rights should be computed from the date of their final determination.
Precedent	It has been further ruled by these later decisions of <ORG> as well as by decisions of <ORG>, that Courts have, in fact, no power on considerations of hardship or equity to invent  new grounds of exemption from the bar of limitation not recognised by the statute.
Precedent	It seems to me, therefore, that the principles laid down by these decisions are a fortiori applicable to a question of limitation which may arise, as pointed out by <NAME>, J., in his unreported decision in S. A.
Precedent	No.
Precedent	80 of 1946, in relation to a suit in the ordinary <ORG> based on grounds of eviction under the general law, which are by no means identical with the grounds constituting the cause of action for an application to the Controller.
