Fact	1 REPORTABLE IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION CIVIL APPEAL NO.3261 OF 2011 (Arising out of Special Leave Petition (C) No.601 of 2009) <NAME> (Dead) Through L.Rs.
Fact	and others ......Appellants Versus State of U.P.
Fact	and others ......Respondents J U D G M E N T  G.S.
Fact	<NAME>, <NAME>.
Fact	Leave granted.
Fact	2.
Fact	This appeal is directed against order dated 15.12.2008 passed by the Division Bench of <ORG> whereby the writ petition filed by the appellants questioning the acquisition of their land for planned industrial development of District Gautam Budh Nagar through <ORG> (hereinafter referred to as the, "Development <ORG>") by invoking Section 17(1) and 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (for short, "the Act"), as amended by Uttar Pradesh Act No.8 of 1974, was dismissed.
Fact	3.
Fact	Upon receipt of proposal from the Development <ORG> for acquisition of 205.0288 hectares land of village Makora, Pargana Dankaur, Tehsil and  District Gautam Budh Nagar, which was approved by the State Government, notification dated 12.3.2008 was issued under Section 4(1) read with Section 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act.
Fact	The relevant portions of the notification are extracted below:    "Under Sub-Section (1) of Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act 1894 (Act no.1 of 1894), the Governor is pleased to notify for general information that the land mentioned in the scheduled below, is needed for public purpose, namely planned industrial development in District Gautam Budh Nagar through <ORG>.
Fact	2.
Fact	The Governor being of the opinion that the provisions of sub-section 1 of Section 17 of the said Act, are applicable to said land inasmuch as the said land is urgently required, for the planned industrial development in District Gautam Budh Nagar through <ORG> and it is as well necessary to eliminate the delay likely to be caused by an enquiry under Section 5A of the said Act, the  Governor is further pleased to direct under sub-section 4 of Section 17 of the said Act that the provisions of Section 5A of the said Act, shall not apply."
Fact	4.
Fact	Since the appellants' land was also included in the notification, they made a representation to the Chairman-cum-Chief Executive Officer of <ORG> (Respondent No.4) with copies to the Chief Minister, Principal Secretary, <ORG>, U.P., the District Magistrate and the Special Officer, Land Acquisition, <NAME> with the request that their land comprised in Khasra No.394 may not be acquired because they had raised construction 30-35 years ago and were using the property for abadi/habitation.
Fact	The concerned functionaries/authorities did not pay heed to the request of the appellants and <ORG> issued notification dated 19.11.2008 under Section 6 read with Section 9 of the Act.
Fact	5.
Fact	The appellants challenged the acquisition of their land on several grounds including the following:    (i) Th at the land cannot be used for industrial purposes because in the draft Master Plan of Greater NOIDA (2021), the same is shown as part of residential zone.
Fact	(ii) That they had already constructed dwelling houses and as per the policy of <ORG>, the residential structures are exempted from acquisition.
Fact	(iii) That <ORG> arbitrarily invoked Section 17(1) read with Section 17(4) of the Act and deprived them of their valuable right to raise objections under Section 5-A .
Fact	(iv) The acquisition of land is vitiated by arbitrariness, <NAME> fides and violation of Article 14 of the Constitution inasmuch as lands of the Member of Legislative Assembly and other influential persons were left out from acquisition despite the fact that they were not in abadi, but they were not given similar treatment despite the fact that their land was part of abadi and they had constructed dwelling units.
Fact	6.
Fact	In support of their challenge to the invoking of Section 17(1) and (4), the appellants made detaile d averments in paragraphs 11 and 16 and raised specific grounds A and F, which are extracted below:  "11.
RatioOfTheDecision	That as per the scheme of the said Act, each and every section from sections 4 to 17 has an independent role to play though there is an element of interaction between them.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 5-A , has a very important role to play in the acquisition proceedings and it is mandatory of the part of the government to give hearing to the person interested in the land whose land is sought to be acquired.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is relevant to point out that the acquisition proceedings under the Act, are based on the principal of eminent domain and the only protection given to the person whose land is sought to be acquired is an opportunity under Section 5-A of the Act to convince the enquiring authority that the purpose for which the land is sought to be acquired is in fact is not a public purpose and is only purported to be one in the guise of a public purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is relevant to mention here that excluding the enquiry under Section 5-A c an only be an exception where the urgency cannot brook any delay.
RatioOfTheDecision	The enquiry provides an opportunity to the owner of land to convince the authorities concerned that the land in question is not suitable for purpose for which it is sought to be acquired or the same sought to be acquired for the collateral purposes.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is pertinent to mention here that the respondents No.
RulingByLowerCourt	1 & 2 without the application of mind dispensed with the enquiry on the ground of urgency invoking the power conferred by Section 17 (1) or (2) of the Act.
RulingByLowerCourt	Further, the respondent No.
RulingByLowerCourt	1 & 2 without application of mind did not considered the survey report of the abadi of the village Makaura where the entire land is being used for the purpose of residence and grazing of cattle's in Khasra No.
RulingByLowerCourt	394.
RulingByLowerCourt	Further, the petitioners were surprised to find that their land have not been included in the Abadi irrespective the same is in use for habitable and keeping the cattle and other uses.
Precedent	The petitioners have constructed their houses and using the same fo r their residence and keep their cattle's and agricultural produce.
Precedent	The survey report clearly shows that the impugned Khasra No.
Precedent	394 is in use for residence.
Argument	The report in respect of the land in question falling in Khasra No.
Argument	394 given by the respondent No.
Argument	4 vide communication dated 26th March, 2007 is annexed as Annexure 6.
Argument	16.
Argument	That the said notification under Section 4 of the Act issued by the respondent No.
Argument	1 and 2 is without application of mind and there was no urgency in the acquisition of land, for the planned industrial development, as the land, as per the master plan - 2021 the land of the village Makaura is reserved for "residential" of which the respondent No.
Argument	2 invoked Section 17 (1) and sub section 4 of the Act by dispensing with an enquiry under Section 5A of the Act.
Argument	The said action on the part of the respondents are un-warranted and is in gross violation of Article 14 ,19 , 21 and 300A of the constitution.
Argument	The such illegal act on the part of the respondents show <NAME> fide and their oblique  motive to deprive the owners from their houses in order to fulfill their political obligations/promise to the private builders by taking the shelter of section 17 of the Act by dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5-A of the Act as well as overlooked purpose as stipulated in the Master Plan 2021 which is any way do not require any urgent attention.
Argument	A.
Argument	That the whole acquisition proceedings are void, unconstitutional, tainted with <NAME> fide, abuse of authority and power, non-application of mind, and as such, liable to be quashed as violative of Articles 14,19 and 300-A of the Constitution of India.
Argument	F. That the purpose stated in the notification under Section 4 and declaration under section 6 by invoking section 17 is presently non-existent and thus the notification is bad in law.
Argument	There is no urgency for the invocation when the land is to be acquired for planned development for the purpose of setting residential colony.
Argument	The impugned notification is without any authority of law and volatile of Article  300-A of the Constitution of India, which limits the power to acquire land to the authority under the Land Acquisition Act .
Argument	Therefore, the notification in question is bad in law."
Argument	(emphasis supplied)  7.
Argument	<ORG> negatived the appellants' challenge at the threshold mainly on the ground that the averments contained in the petition were not supported by a proper affidavit.
Argument	This is evident from the following portions of the impugned order:    "Here the petitioners neither have pleaded that there exist no material before <ORG> to come to the conclusion that the enquiry under Section 5-A should be dispensed with by invoking Section 17(4) of the Act nor the learned counsel for the petitioners could place before us any such averment in the writ petition.
RulingByLowerCourt	Though, in para-11 of the writ petition, an averment has been made that the respondents no.
RulingByLowerCourt	1 and 2 without the application of mind dispensed with the enquiry on the ground of urgency invoking the power conferred by Section 17(1) or (2) of the  Act, but in the affidavit, the said paragraph has been sworn on the basis of perusal of record.
RulingByLowerCourt	Similarly in para 16 of the writ petition, the only averment contained therein is as under:  "16.
Argument	That the said notification under Section 4 of the Act issued by the respondent No.1 and 2 is without application of mind and there was no urgency in the acquisition of land, for the planned industrial development, as the land, as per the master plan-2021 the land of the village Makaura is reserved for "residential" of which the respondent No.2 invoked Section 17(1) and sub- section 4 of the Act by dispensing with an enquiry under Section 5-A of the Act.
Argument	The said action on the part of the respondents are un-warranted and is in gross violation of Article 14 ,19 ,21 and 300A of the Constitution.
Precedent	The such illegal act on the part of the respondents show <NAME> fide and their oblique motive to deprive the owners from their houses in order to fulfill their political obligations/ promise to the private builders by taking the sh elter of Section 17 of the Act by dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5-A of the Act as well as overlooked purpose as stipulated in the Master Plan 2021 which is any way do not require any urgent attention."
Precedent	However, in the affidavit, this para has not been sworn at all and in any case with respect to dispensation of enquiry under Section 5-A by invoking Section 17(4) of the Act nothing has been said except that the exercise of power is violative of Articles 14,19, 21 and 300-A of the Constitution.
Precedent	We, therefore, do not find any occasion even to call upon the respondents to file a counter affidavit placing on record, the material if any for exercising power under Section 17(1) and (4) of the Act in the absence of any relevant pleading or material and the question of requiring the respondents to produce the original record in this regard also does not arise."
Precedent	8.
Precedent	<ORG> distinguished the judgment of this Court in <CITATION_705558> .
Precedent	, albeit without assigning any cogent reason, relied upon th e judgments of the Division Benches in <CITATION_876346> .
Fact	2007 (1) AWC 327, <NAME> v. State of U.P.
RulingByLowerCourt	2008 (8) ADJ 329 and <ORG> Ghaziabad v. State of U.P.
RulingByLowerCourt	2008 (9) ADJ 43 and held that the decision of the <ORG> to invoke Section 17(1) cannot be subjected to judicial review.
Fact	<ORG> also rejected the appellants' plea that in terms of the policy framed by the State <ORG>, the land covered by abadi cannot be acquired by observing that no material has been placed on record to show that the policy framed in 1991 was still continuing.
Fact	To buttress this conclusion, <ORG> relied upon the judgment of this <ORG> in <CITATION_689891> .
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
RatioOfTheDecision	By an order dated 29.10.2010, this <ORG>, after taking cognizance of the fact that the respondents did not get opportunity to file reply to the writ petition, directed them to do so.
Fact	Thereupon, <NAME>, Additional District Magistrate (Land Acquisition)/Officer on Special Duty (Land Acquisition) NOIDA, District Gautam  <NAME> filed counter affidavit on behalf of respondent Nos.1 to 3.
Fact	In paragraph 10 of his affidavit, <NAME> has attempted to justify invoking of the urgency clause by making the following assertions:    "That in invoking the urgency clause the State Government has taken into consideration the following factors:-    i) <ORG> was constituted under the U.P.
Fact	Industrial Area Development Act, 1976 to promote Industrial and Urban Development in the Area.
Fact	The acquired land was urgently required by <ORG> for planned Industrial Development of the area.
Fact	ii) That the land in the adjoining villages were already acquired by the <ORG>.
Fact	Thus, the acquired land was urgently required for continuity of infrastructure services and planned Industrial Development of the Area.
Fact	If, the proposed land was not acquired immediately and delay in this regard would lead to encroachments and would adversely affect the Planne d Industrial Development of the Area.
Fact	iii) That the acquired land was required for overall development i.e.
Fact	construction of roads, laying of sewerages, providing electricity etc.
Fact	in the area and the said scheme has been duly approved by the state government.
Fact	iv) That the acquired land consists of 246 plots numbers with 392 recorded tenure holders.
Fact	If objections are to be invited and hearing be given to such large number of tenure holders, it would take long time to dispose of the objections thereof and would hamper the planned development of the area.
Fact	v) That reputed industrial houses who are interested in investing in the <ORG> and in case the land is not readily available, they might move to other states and such a move would adversely affect the employment opportunities in the <ORG>."
Fact	<NAME> also controverted the appellants' plea for exemption by stating that the constructions made by them on land of Khasra Nos.101 and 399 were insignificant and the construction raised on Khasra No.394  is not part of village Abadi.
Argument	10.
Argument	<NAME>, Tehsildar filed a separate affidavit on behalf of Respondent No.4 and justified the invoking of urgency clause by asserting that large tracts of land were acquired for industrial development of the district.
Argument	According to him, as per the policy of industrial development of <ORG>, the land is required to be allotted to industrial houses.
Argument	11.
Fact	On 8.11.2010, <NAME> learned senior counsel for the <ORG> made a request for permission to file additional affidavit with some documents.
Fact	His request was accepted.
Fact	Thereafter, the respondents filed an affidavit of <NAME>, Tehsildar, Land Acquisition, Gautam Budh Nagar along with eight documents of which seven have been collectively marked as Annexure A-1.
Fact	The first of the documents marked Annexure A-1 is copy of letter dated 25.2.2008 sent by the Commissioner and Director, <ORG>, Revenue Board, U.P.
Fact	to the Special Secretary, <ORG> evelopment on the subject of issuance of notification under Sections 4 and 17 of the Act for acquisition of lands measuring 205.0288 hectares of village Makora.
Fact	The second document is an undated letter signed by Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Greater Noida, Collector, <NAME> and four other officers/officials.
Fact	The next document has been described as comments/certificate on the issues raised in Government Order No.5261/77-4-06-251N/06 dated 21.12.2006 with regard to proposal for acquisition of 205.0288 hectares lands in village Makora.
Fact	This document is accompanied by seven forms containing various particulars.
Fact	The third document is communication dated 29.10.2007 sent by the Commissioner, Meerut Division, Meerut to the District Magistrate, <NAME> conveying the consent of <ORG> for the acquisition of lands of five villages including Makora.
Fact	This letter is accompanied by minutes of the meeting of <ORG> held on 29.10.2007.
Fact	The fi fth document is form No.43A-  1.
Fact	The sixth document is communication dated 22.2.2008 sent by Collector, Land Acquisition/Special Land Acquisition Officer, Greater Noida.
Fact	The last document which forms part of Annexure A-1 is form No.16 showing the list of properties having constructions etc.
Fact	Annexure A-2 is copy of letter dated 31.10.2008 sent by the Director, <ORG> to the Special Secretary, <ORG>.
Fact	12.
Argument	<NAME> learned counsel for the appellants argued that the impugned order is liable to be set aside because <ORG> failed to consider the issues raised in the writ petition in a correct perspective.
Argument	Learned counsel submitted that the appellants had specifically pleaded that there was no valid ground to invoke the urgency clause contained in Section 17(1) and to dispense with the application of Section 5-A but <ORG> did not even call upon the respondents to file counter affidavit and brushed aside the challenge to the acquisition proceeding on  a wholly untenable premise that the affidavit filed in support of the writ petition was laconic.
Argument	Learned counsel further argued that the purpose for which land was acquired i.e.
Argument	planned industrial development of the district did not justify invoking of the urgency provisions and denial of opportunity to the appellants and other land owners to file objections under Section 5-A (1) and to be heard by the Collector in terms of the mandate of Section 5-A (2).
Argument	In support of his argument, learned counsel relied upon the judgments in <CITATION_202223>  and <CITATION_1128835> .
Argument	Another argument of the learned counsel is that <ORG> misdirected itself in summarily dismissing the writ petition ignoring the substantive plea of discrimination raised by the appellants.
Argument	13.
Argument	<NAME>, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents urged that this Court should not nullify the acquisition at the instance of the appellants because the pleadings filed before <ORG> were not supported by prop er affidavit.
Argument	<NAME> argued that <ORG> was justified in non-suiting the appellants because they did not produce any evidence to effectively challenge the invoking of urgency provision contained in Section 17(1) .
Argument	Learned senior counsel emphasized that the satisfaction envisaged in Section 17(1) is purely subjective and the <ORG> cannot review the decision taken by <ORG> to invoke the urgency clause.
Argument	He submitted that planned industrial development of District Gautam Budh Nagar is being undertaken in consonance with the policy decision taken by <ORG> and the appellants cannot be heard to make a grievance against the acquisition of their land because they will be duly compensated.
Argument	In support of his argument, <NAME> relied upon the judgment of this <ORG> in <CITATION_469498>  and <CITATION_64823282> .
Argument	.
Argument	Learned senior counsel further submitted that the appellants' land cannot be released from acquisition because that will result in frustrating the objective of p lanned industrial development of the district.
Argument	On the issue of discrimination, <NAME> argued that even if the land belonging to some persons has been illegally left out from acquisition, the appellants are not entitled to a direction that their land should also be released.
Argument	14.
Fact	The first issue which needs to be addressed is whether <ORG> was justified in non-suiting the appellants on the ground that they had not raised a specific plea supported by a proper affidavit to question the decision taken by the State Government to invoke Section 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act.
Fact	We shall also consider an ancillary issue as to whether the appellants had succeeded in prima facie proving that there was no justification to invoke the urgency clause and to dispense with the inquiry envisaged under Section 5-A .
Argument	15.
RatioOfTheDecision	At the outset, we record our disapproval of the casual manner in which <ORG> disposed of the writ petition without even calling upon the respondents to file counter affidavit and produce  the relevant records.
RatioOfTheDecision	A reading of the averments contained in paragraphs 11 and 16 and grounds A and F of the writ petition, which have been extracted hereinabove coupled with the appellants' assertion that the acquisition of their land was vitiated due to discrimination inasmuch as land belonging to influential persons had been left out from acquisition, but their land was acquired in total disregard of the policy of <ORG> to leave out land on which dwelling units had already been constructed, show that they had succeeded in making out a strong case for deeper examination of the issues raised in the writ petition and <ORG> committed serious error by summarily non- suiting them.
RatioOfTheDecision	16.
Precedent	The history of land acquisition legislations shows that in Eighteenth Century, Bengal Regulation I of 1824, Act I of 1850, Act VI of 1857, Act XXII of 1863, Act X of 1870, Bombay Act No.
Precedent	XXVIII of 1839, Bombay Act No.
Fact	XVII of 1850, Madras Act No.
Fact	XX of 1852 and Madras Act No.1 of 1854 were enacted to fac ilitate the acquisition of land and other immovable properties for roads, canals, and other public purposes by paying the amount to be determined by the arbitrators.
Fact	In 1870, the Land Acquisition Act was enacted to provide for proper valuation of the acquired land.
Fact	That Act envisaged that if the person having interest in land is not agreeable to part with possession by accepting the amount offered to him, then the Collector may make a reference to <ORG>.
Fact	The 1870 Act also envisaged appointment of assessors to assist <ORG>.
Fact	If the <ORG> and the assessor did not agree on the amount then an appeal could be filed in the High <ORG>.
Fact	This mechanism proved ineffective because lot of time was consumed in litigation.
Fact	With a view to overcome this problem, the legislature enacted the Act on the line of the English Lands Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845.
Fact	However, the land owners or persons having interest in land did not have any say in the acquisition process either under pre-1984 legislations or the  1984 Act (un-amended).
Fact	They could raise objection only qua the amount of compensation and matters connected therewith.
Fact	The absence of opportunity to raise objection against the acquisition of land was resented by those who were deprived of their land.
Fact	To redress this grievance, Section 5A was inserted in the Act by amending Act No.38 of 1923.
Statute	The statement of Objects and Reasons contained in Bill No.29 of 1923, which led to enactment of the amending Act read as under:  " The Land Acquisition Act I of 1894 does not provide that persons having an interest in land which it is proposed to acquire, shall have the right of objecting to such acquisition; nor is Government bound to enquire into and consider any objections that may reach them.
Statute	The object of this Bill is to provide that <ORG> shall not declare, under Section 6 of the Act, that any land is needed for a public purpose unless time has been allowed after the notification under Section 4 for persons interested in the land to put in objections a nd for such objections to be considered by <ORG>."
RatioOfTheDecision	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act , which was enacted more than 116 years ago for facilitating the acquisition of land and other immovable properties for construction of roads, canals, railways etc., has been frequently used in the post independence era for different public purposes like laying of roads, construction of bridges, dams and buildings of various public establishments/institutions, planned development of urban areas, providing of houses to different sections of the society and for developing residential colonies/sectors.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, in the recent years, the country has witnessed a new phenomena.
RatioOfTheDecision	Large tracts of land have been acquired in rural parts of the country in the name of development and transferred to private entrepreneurs, who have utilized the same for construction of multi-storied complexes, commercial centers and for setting up industrial units.
RatioOfTheDecision	Similarly, large scale acquisitions have been made on behalf of the companies by invoking the prov isions contained in Part VII of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
RatioOfTheDecision	The resultant effect of these acquisitions is that the land owners, who were doing agricultural operations and other ancillary activities in rural areas, have been deprived of the only source of their livelihood.
RatioOfTheDecision	Majority of them do not have any idea about their constitutional and legal rights, which can be enforced by availing the constitutional remedies under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	They reconcile with deprivation of land by accepting the amount of compensation offered by the Government and by thinking that it is their fate and destiny determined by God.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even those who get semblance of education are neither conversant with the functioning of the <ORG> apparatus nor they can access the records prepared by the concerned authorities as a prelude to the acquisition of land by invoking Section 4 with or without the aid of Section 17(1) and/or 17(4).
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, while examining the land owner's challenge to the acquisition of land in a petition filed  under Article 226 of the Constitution, <ORG> should not adopt a pedantic approach, as has been done in the present case, and decide the matter keeping in view the constitutional goals of social and economic justice and the fact that even though the right to property is no longer a fundamental right, the same continues to be an important constitutional right and in terms of Article 300-A , no person can be deprived of his property except by authority of law.
RatioOfTheDecision	In cases where the acquisition is made by invoking Section 4 read with Section 17(1) and/or 17(4), <ORG> should insist upon filing of reply affidavit by the respondents and production of the relevant records and carefully scrutinize the same before pronouncing upon legality of the impugned notification/action because a negative result without examining the relevant records to find out whether the competent authority had formed a bona fide opinion on the issue of invoking the urgency provision and excluding the application of Section 5-A  is likely to make the land owner a landless poor and force him to migrate to the nearby city only to live in a slum.
RatioOfTheDecision	A departure from this rule should be made only when land is required to meet really emergent situations like those enumerated in Section 17(2) .
RatioOfTheDecision	If the acquisition is intended to benefit private person(s) and the provisions contained in Section 17(1) and/or 17(4) are invoked, then scrutiny of the justification put forward by the <ORG> should be more rigorous in cases involving the challenge to the acquisition of land, the pleadings should be liberally construed and relief should not be denied to the petitioner by applying the technical rules of procedure embodied in the Code of Civil Procedure and other procedural laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this context it will be profitable to notice the observations made by this <ORG> in <CITATION_763510> , which are as under:    "......It is true that Judges are constitutional invigilators and statutory interpreters; but they are also responsive and responsible to Part IV of  the Constitution being one of the trinity of the nation's appointed instrumentalities in the transformation of the socio-economic order.
RatioOfTheDecision	The judiciary, in its sphere, shares the revolutionary purpose of the constitutional order, and when called upon to decode social legislation must be animated by a goal- oriented approach.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is part of the dynamics of statutory interpretation in the developing countries so that courts are not converted into rescue shelters for those who seek to defeat agrarian justice by cute transactions of many manifestations now so familiar in the country and illustrated by the several cases under appeal.
RatioOfTheDecision	This caveat has become necessary because the judiciary is not a mere umpire, as some assume, but an activist catalyst in the constitutional scheme."
RatioOfTheDecision	19.
RatioOfTheDecision	We may now advert to the ancillary question whether <ORG> was justified in non suiting the appellants on the ground that they failed to discharge the primary burden of proving that <ORG> had invoked Section  17(1) and 17(4) without application of mind to the relevant considerations.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this context, it is apposite to observe that while dealing with challenge to the acquisition of land belonging to those who suffer from handicaps of poverty, illiteracy and ignorance and do not have the resources to access the material relied upon by the functionaries of the <ORG> and its agencies for forming an opinion or recording a satisfaction that the urgency provisions contained in Section 17(1) should be resorted to and/or the enquiry envisaged under Section 5A should be dispensed with, <ORG> should not literally apply the abstract rules of burden of proof enshrined in the Evidence Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	It is too much to expect from the rustic villagers, who are not conversant with the intricacies of law and functioning of the judicial system in our country to first obtain relevant information and records from the concerned <ORG> authorities and then present skillfully drafted petition for enforcement of his legal and/or constituti onal rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> should also bear in mind that the relevant records are always in the exclusive possession/domain of the authorities of the <ORG> and/or its agencies.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, an assertion by the appellants that there was no urgency in the acquisition of land; that the concerned authorities did not apply mind to the relevant factors and records and arbitrarily invoked the urgency provisions and thereby denied him the minimum opportunity of hearing in terms of Section 5-A(1) and (2), should be treated as sufficient for calling upon the respondents to file their response and produce the relevant records to justify the invoking of urgency provisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	20.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_202223> (supra), the three-Judge Bench of this <ORG> examined the correctness of the judgment of the Bombay High <ORG> whereby the acquisition of land by the <ORG> Government by issuing notification under Section 4 read with Section 17(1) and 17(4) for development and utilisation as residential and industrial area was quashed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The High <ORG> h eld that the purpose of acquisition was a genuine public purpose but quashed the notifications by observing that the burden of proving the existence of circumstances which could justify invoking of urgency clause was on the <ORG>, which it had failed to discharge.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some of the observations made by <ORG>, which have been extracted in paragraphs 11 and 12 of the judgment of this <ORG>, are reproduced below.
RatioOfTheDecision	"When the formation of an opinion or the satisfaction of an authority is subjective but is a condition precedent to the exercise of a power, the challenge to the formation of such opinion or to such satisfaction is limited, in law, to three points only.
RatioOfTheDecision	It can be challenged, firstly, on the ground of <NAME> fides; secondly, on the ground that the authority which formed that opinion or which arrived at such satisfaction did not apply its mind to the material on which it formed the opinion or arrived at the satisfaction, and, thirdly, that the material on which it formed its opinion or reached the sati sfaction was so insufficient that no man could reasonably reach that conclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as the third point is concerned, no court of law can, as in an appeal, consider that, on the material placed before the authority, the authority was justified in reaching its conclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	The court can interfere only in such cases where there was no material at all or the material was so insufficient that no man could have reasonably reached that conclusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the case before us the petitioner has stated in the petition more than once that the urgency clause had been applied without any valid reason.
RatioOfTheDecision	The urgency clause in respect of each of the said two notifications concerning the lands in Groups 1 and 2 is contained in the relative Section 4 notification itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	The public purpose stated in the notification is `for development and utilization of the said lands as an industrial and residential area'.
RatioOfTheDecision	To start with, this statement itself is vague, in the sense that it is not clear whether the development and utilization o f the lands referred to in that statement was confined to the lands mentioned in the schedule to the notification or it applied to a wider area of which such lands formed only a part.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as the affidavit in reply is concerned, no facts whatever are stated.
RatioOfTheDecision	The affidavit only states that the authority i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	the Commissioner of <ORG> was satisfied that the possession of the said lands was urgently required for the purpose of carrying out the said development.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even Mr <NAME> conceded that the affidavit does not contain a statement of facts on which the authority was satisfied or on which it formed its opinion.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, therefore, quite clear that the respondents have failed to bring on record any material whatever on which the respondents formed the opinion mentioned in the two notifications.
RatioOfTheDecision	The notifications themselves show that they concern many lands other than those falling in the said first and third groups.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not possible to know what was the development for which the lands were being  acquired, much less is it possible to know what were the circumstances which caused urgency in the taking of possession of such lands.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have held that the burden of proving such circumstances, at least prima facie is on the respondents.
RatioOfTheDecision	As the respondents have brought no relevant material on the record, the respondents have failed to discharge that burden.
RatioOfTheDecision	We must, in conclusion, hold that the urgency provision under Section 17(4) was not validly resorted to."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied) While dealing with the argument of the <ORG> that it was for the petitioner to prove that there was no material to justify invoking of the urgency clause, this <ORG> observed:    "We do not think that a question relating to burden of proof is always free from difficulty or is quite so simple as it is sought to be made out here.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, the apparent simplicity of a question relating to presumptions and burdens of proof, which have to be always viewed together is often deceptive.
RatioOfTheDecision	Over simplification of such questions leads to <NAME> eous statements and misapplications of the law."
Precedent	The <ORG> then referred to the judgment in <NAME> v. <ORG>, 1935 AC 462, extensively quoted from Phipson on Evidence (11th Edn), noticed Sections 101 to 106 of the Evidence Act and observed:   "Coming back to the cases before us, we find that the High <ORG> had correctly stated the grounds on which even a subjective opinion as to the existence of the need to take action under Section 17(4) of the Act can be challenged on certain limited grounds.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, as soon as we speak of a challenge we have to bear in mind the general burdens laid down by Sections 101 and 102 of the Evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is for the petitioner to substantiate the grounds of his challenge.
RatioOfTheDecision	This means that the petitioner has to either lead evidence or show that some evidence has come from the side of the respondents to indicate that his challenge to a notification or order is made good.
RatioOfTheDecision	If he does not succeed in discharging that duty his petition will fail.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, is that  the position in the cases before us?
RatioOfTheDecision	We find that, although <ORG> had stated the question before it to be one which "narrows down to the point as to the burden of proof" yet, it had analysed the evidence sufficiently before it to reach the conclusion that the urgency provision under Section 17(4) had not been validly resorted to.
RatioOfTheDecision	... ... ...  ... We think that the original or stable onus laid down by Section 101 and Section 102 of the Evidence Act cannot be shifted by the use of Section 106 of the Evidence Act, although the particular onus of providing facts and circumstances lying especially within the knowledge of the official who formed the opinion which resulted in the notification under Section 17 (4) of the Act rests upon that official.
RatioOfTheDecision	The recital, if it is not defective, may obviate the need to look further.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, there may be circumstances in the case which impel the court to look beyond it.
RatioOfTheDecision	And, at that stage, Section 106 Evidence Act can be invoked by the party assailing an order or notif ication.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is most unsafe in such cases for the official or authority concerned to rest content which non- disclosure of facts especially within his or its knowledge by relying on the sufficiency of a recital.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such an attitude may itself justify further judicial scrutiny.
RatioOfTheDecision	... ... ...
RatioOfTheDecision	In the cases before us, if the total evidence from whichever side any of it may have come, was insufficient to enable the petitioners to discharge their general or stable onus, their petitions could not succeed.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, if, in addition to the bare assertions made by the petitioners, that the urgency contemplated by Section 17(4) did not exist, there were other facts and circumstances, including the failure of the <ORG> to indicate facts and circumstances which it could have easily disclosed if they existed, the petitioners could be held to have discharged their general onus.
Precedent	... ... ...
Precedent	It is also clear that, even a technically correct recital in an order or notification stating that the conditions precedent to th e exercise of a power have been fulfilled may not debar the court in a given case from considering the question whether, in fact, those conditions have been fulfilled.
Precedent	And, a fortiori, the court may consider and decide whether the authority concerned has applied its mind to really relevant facts of a case with a view to determining that a condition precedent to the exercise of a power has been fulfilled.
Precedent	If it appears, upon an examination of the totality of facts in the case, that the power conferred has been exercised for an extraneous or irrelevant purpose or that the mind has not been applied at all to the real object or purpose of a power, so that the result is that the exercise of power could only serve some other or collateral object, the court will interfere."
Precedent	The Court finally held as under:    "..................There is no indication whatsoever in the affidavit filed on behalf of the <ORG> the mind of the Commissioner was applied at all to the question whether it was a case necessitating the elimina tion of the enquiry under Section5A of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The recitals in the notifications, on the other hand, indicate that elimination of the enquiry under Section 5A of the Act was treated as an automatic consequence of the opinion formed on other matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	The recital does not say at all that any opinion was formed on the need to dispense with the enquiry under Section 5A of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is certainly a case in which the recital was at least defective.
RatioOfTheDecision	The burden, therefore, rested upon the <ORG> to remove the defect, if possible, by evidence to show that some exceptional circumstances which necessitated the elimination of an enquiry under Section 5A of the Act and that the mind of the Commissioner was applied to this essential question.
RatioOfTheDecision	It seems to us that <ORG> correctly applied the provisions of Section 106 of the Evidence Act to place the burden upon the <ORG> to prove those special circumstances, although it also appears to us that <ORG> was quite correct in stating its view in such a manner as  to make it appear that some part of the initial burden of the petitioners under Sections 101 and 102 of the Evidence Act had been displaced by the failure of the <ORG> to discharge its duty under Section 106 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The correct way of putting it would have been to say that the failure of the <ORG> to produce the evidence of facts especially within the knowledge of its officials, which rested upon it under Section 106 of the Evidence Act, taken together with the attendant facts and circumstances including the contents of recitals, had enabled the petitioners to discharge their burden under Sections 101 and 102 of the Evidence Act."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  21.
RatioOfTheDecision	The ratio of the aforesaid judgment was recently followed by the two-  Judge Bench in <CITATION_1273595> (2010) 11 SCC  242.
RatioOfTheDecision	22.
RatioOfTheDecision	We shall now consider whether there was any valid ground or justification for invoking the urgency provision contained in Section 17(1) and to exclude the application of Section 5A for the acquisition of land for planned i ndustrial development of the district.
Statute	Sections 4 , 5-A (as amended), 6 and 17 of the Act which have bearing on this question read as under:    "4.
Statute	Publication of preliminary notification and power of officers thereupon.- (1) Whenever it appears to the appropriate <ORG> that land in any locality is needed or is likely to be needed for any public purpose or for a company, a notification to that effect shall be published in <ORG> and in two daily newspapers circulating in that locality of which at least one shall be in the regional language, and the Collector shall cause public notice of the substance of such notification to be given at convenient places in the said locality (the last of the dates of such publication and the giving of such public notice, being hereinafter referred to as the date of the publication of the notification).
Statute	(2) Thereupon it shall be lawful for any officer, either generally or specially authorized by such <ORG> in this behalf, and for his servants and workmen , - to enter upon and survey and take levels of any land in such locality; to dig or bore into the sub-soil; to do all other acts necessary to ascertain whether the land is adapted for such purpose;  to set out the boundaries of the land proposed to be taken and the intended line of the work (if any) proposed to be made thereon;  to mark such levels, boundaries and line by placing marks and cutting trenches; and, where otherwise the survey cannot be completed and the levels taken and the boundaries and line marked, to cut down and clear away any part of any standing crop, fence or jungle;     Provided that no person shall enter into any building or upon any enclosed court or garden attached to a dwelling house (unless with the consent of the occupier thereof) without previously giving such occupier at least seven days' notice in writing of his intention to do so.
Statute	5A.
Statute	Hearing of objections.
Statute	- (1) Any person interested in any land which has been notified under section 4 , sub- section (1), as being needed or li kely to be needed for a public purpose or for a company may, within thirty days from the date of the publication of the notification, object to the acquisition of the land or of any land in the locality, as the case may be.
Statute	(2) Every objection under sub-section (1) shall be made to the Collector in writing, and the Collector shall give the objector an opportunity of being heard in person or by any person authorized by him in this behalf or by pleader and shall, after hearing all such objections and after making such further inquiry, if any, as he thinks necessary, either make a report in respect of the land which has been notified under section 4 , sub-section (1), or make different reports in respect of different parcels of such land, to the appropriate <ORG>, containing his recommendations on the objections, together with the record of the proceedings held by him, for the decision of that <ORG>.
Statute	The decision of the appropriate <ORG> on the objections shall be final.
Statute	(3) For the purpose of t his section, a person shall be deemed to be interested in land who would be entitled to claim an interest in compensation if the land were acquired under this Act.
Statute	6.
Statute	Declaration that land is required for a public purpose.
Statute	- (1) Subject to the provisions of Part VII of this Act, when the appropriate Government is satisfied, after considering the report, if any, made under section 5A , sub-section (2), that any particular land is needed for a public purpose, or for a Company, a declaration shall be made to that effect under the signature of a Secretary to such Government or of some officer duly authorized to certify its orders, and different declarations may be made from time to time in respect of different parcels of any land covered by the same notification under section 4 , sub-section (1) irrespective of whether one report or different reports has or have been made (wherever required) under section 5A , sub-section (2):  Provided that no declaration in respect of any particular land covered by a notific ation under section 4 , sub- section (1), -    (i) xx xx xx xx  (ii) published after the commencement of the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act , 1984, shall be made after the expiry of one year from the date of the publication of the notification:  Provided further that no such declaration shall be made unless the compensation to be awarded for such property is to be paid by a <ORG>, or wholly or partly out of public revenues or some fund controlled or managed by a local authority.
Statute	Explanation 1.
Statute	- In computing any of the periods referred to in the first proviso, the period during which any action or proceeding to be taken in pursuance of the notification issued under section 4 , sub-section (1), is stayed by an order of a <ORG> shall be excluded.
Statute	Explanation 2.
Statute	- Where the compensation to be awarded for such property is to be paid out of the funds of a corporation owned or controlled by the <ORG>, such compensation shall be deemed to be compensation paid out of public revenues.
Statute	(2) Every declaration shal l be published in <ORG>, and in two daily newspapers circulating in the locality in which the land is situate of which at least one shall be in the regional language, and the Collector shall cause public notice of the substance of such declaration to be given at convenient places in the said locality (the last of the date of such publication and the giving of such public notice, being hereinafter referred to as the date of the publication of the declaration), and such declaration shall state the district or other territorial division in which the land is situate, the purpose for which it is needed, its approximate area, and, where a plan shall have been made of the land, the place where such plan may be inspected.
Statute	(3) The said declaration shall be conclusive evidence that the land is needed for a public purpose or for a <ORG>, as the case may be; and, after making such declaration, the appropriate Government may acquire the land in manner hereinafter appearing.
Statute	17.
Statute	Special powers in case  of urgency.
Statute	- (1) In cases of urgency whenever the appropriate <ORG>, so directs, the Collector, though no such award has been made, may, on the expiration of fifteen days from the publication of the notice mentioned in section 9 , sub- section (1) take possession of any land needed for a public purpose.
Statute	Such land shall thereupon vest absolutely in the <ORG>, free from all encumbrances.
Statute	(2) Whenever, owing to any sudden change in the channel of any navigable river or other unforeseen emergency, it becomes necessary for <ORG> to acquire the immediate possession of any land for the maintenance of their traffic or for the purpose of making thereon a river-side or ghat station, or of providing convenient connection with or access to any such station, or the appropriate <ORG> considers it necessary to acquire the immediate possession of any land for the purpose of maintaining any structure or system pertaining to irrigation, water supply, drainage, road communication or electri city, the Collector may, immediately after the publication of the notice mentioned in sub-section (1) and with the previous sanction of the appropriate <ORG>, enter upon and take possession of such land, which shall thereupon vest absolutely in the <ORG> free from all encumbrances:  Provided that the Collector shall not take possession of any building or part of a building under this sub-section without giving to the occupier thereof at least forty-eight hours' notice of his intention so to do, or such longer notice as may be reasonably sufficient to enable such occupier to remove his movable property from such building without unnecessary inconvenience.
Statute	(3) In every case under either of the preceding sub- sections the Collector shall at that time of taking possession offer to the persons interested compensation for the standing crops and trees (if any) on such land and from any other damage sustained by them caused by such sudden dispossession and not excepted in section 24 ; and, in case such off er is not accepted, the value of such crops and trees and the amount of such other damage shall be allowed for in awarding compensation for the land under the provisions herein contained.
Statute	(3A) Before taking possession of any land under sub- section (1) or sub-section (2), the Collector shall, without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (3)-    (a) tender payment of eighty per centum of the compensation for such land as estimated by him to the persons interested entitled thereto, and  (b) pay it to them, unless prevented by some one or more of the contingencies mentioned in section 31 , sub- section (2), and where the Collector is so prevented, the provisions of section 31 , sub-section (2), (except the second proviso thereto), shall apply as they apply to the payment of compensation under that section.
Statute	(3B) The amount paid or deposited under sub-section (3A), shall be taken into account for determining the amount of compensation required to be tendered under section 31 , and where the amount so paid  or deposited exceeds the compensation awarded by the Collector under section 11 , the excess may, unless refunded within three months from the date of Collector's award, be recovered as an arrear of land revenue.
Statute	(4) In the case of any land to which, in the opinion of the appropriate <ORG>, the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) are applicable, the appropriate <ORG> may direct that the provisions of section 5A shall not apply, and, if it does so direct, a declaration may be made under section 6 in respect of the land at any time after the date of the publication of the notification under section 4 , sub-section (1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 17 has been amended five times by the Uttar Pradesh legislature.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, the only amendment which is relevant for deciding this case is the insertion of proviso to Section 17(4) vide Uttar Pradesh Act No.8 of 1974.
Statute	That proviso reads as under:    "Provided that where in the case of any land, notification under section 4 , sub-section (1) has been published in th e Official Gazette on or after September 24, 1984 but before January 11, 1989, and the appropriate <ORG> has under this sub-section directed that the provisions of section 5A shall not apply, a declaration under section 6 in respect of the land may be made either simultaneously with, or at any time after, the publication in <ORG> of the notification under section 4 , sub-section (1)."
Statute	23.
Statute	ANALYSIS OF THE PROVISIONS:     Section 4(1) lays down that whenever it appears to the appropriate <ORG> that land in any locality is needed or is likely to be needed for any public purpose or for a company, then a notification to that effect is required to be published in <ORG> and two daily newspapers having circulation in the locality.
Statute	Of these, one paper has to be in the regional language.
Statute	A duty is also cast on the Collector, as defined in Section 32  3(c) , to cause public notice of the substance of such notification to be given at convenient places in the locality.
RatioOfTheDecision	The last d ate of publication and giving of public notice is treated as the date of publication of the notification.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 4(2) lays down that after publication of the notification under Section 4(1) , any officer authorised by the <ORG> in this behalf, his servants or workmen can enter upon and survey and take levels of any land in the locality or to dig or bore into the sub-soil and to do all other acts necessary for ascertaining that land is suitable for the purpose of acquisition.
RatioOfTheDecision	The concerned officer, his servants or workmen can fix the boundaries of land proposed to be acquired and the intended line of the work, if any, proposed to be made on it.
RatioOfTheDecision	They can also mark such levels and boundaries by marks and cutting trenches and cut down and clear any part of any standing crops, fence or jungle for the purpose of completing the survey and taking level, marking of boundaries and line.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, neither the officer nor his servants or workmen can, without the consent of the occupier, enter into any building or up on any enclosed court or garden attached to a dwelling house without giving seven days' notice to the occupier.
Statute	Section 5A , which embodies the most important dimension of the rules of natural justice, lays down that any person interested in any land notified under Section 4(1) may, within 30 days of publication of the notification, submit objection in writing against the proposed acquisition of land or of any land in the locality to the Collector.
Statute	The Collector is required to give the objector an opportunity of being heard either in person or by any person authorized by him or by pleader.
Statute	After hearing the objector (s) and making such further inquiry, as he may think necessary, the Collector has to make a report in respect of land notified under Section 4(1) with his recommendations on the objections and forward the same to the Government along with the record of the proceedings held by him.
Statute	The Collector can make different reports in respect of different parcels of land proposed to be acquired.
Statute	Upon receipt  of the Collector's report, the appropriate <ORG> is required to take action under Section 6(1) which lays down that after considering the report, if any, made under Section 5-A (2), the appropriate <ORG> is satisfied that any particular land is needed for a public purpose, then a declaration to that effect is required to be made under the signatures of a Secretary to the <ORG> or of some officer duly authorised to certify its orders.
Statute	This section also envisages making of different declarations from time to time in respect of different parcels of land covered by the same notification issued under Section 5(1) .
Statute	In terms of clause (ii) of proviso to Section 6(1) , no declaration in respect of any particular land covered by a notification issued under Section 4(1) , which is published after 24.9.1989 can be made after expiry of one year from the date of publication of the notification.
Statute	To put it differently, a declaration is required to be made under Section 6(1) within one year from the date of  publication of the notification under Section 4(1) .
Statute	In terms of Section 6(2) , every declaration made under Section 6(1) is required to be published in the official gazette and in two daily newspapers having circulation in the locality in which land proposed to be acquired is situated.
Statute	Of these, at least one must be in the regional language.
Statute	The Collector is also required to cause public notice of the substance of such declaration to be given at convenient places in the locality.
Statute	The declaration to be published under Section 6(2) must contain the district or other territorial division in which land is situate, the purpose for which it is needed, its approximate area or a plan is made in respect of land and the place where such plan can be inspected.
Statute	Section 6 (3) lays down that the declaration made under Section 6(1) shall be conclusive evidence of the fact that land is needed for a public purpose.
Statute	After publication of the declaration under Section 6 , the Collector is required to take order from <ORG> overnment for the acquisition of land to be carved out and measured and planned ( Sections 7 and 8 ).
RatioOfTheDecision	The next stage as envisaged is issue of public notice and individual notice to the persons interested in land to file their claim for compensation.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 11 envisages holding of an enquiry into the claim and passing of an award by the Collector who is required to take into consideration the provisions contained in Section 23 .
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 16 lays down that after making an award the Collector can take possession of land which shall thereafter vest in the Government.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 17(1) postulates taking of possession of land without making an award.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the appropriate Government decides that land proposed to be acquired is urgently needed for a public purpose then it can authorise the competent authority to take possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 17(2) contemplates a different type of urgency in which, <ORG> can authorise taking of possession even before expiry of 15 days period specified in Section 9 (1).
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 17( 4) lays down that in cases where appropriate Government comes to the conclusion that there is existence of an urgency or unforeseen emergency, it can direct that provisions of Section 5-A shall not apply.
RatioOfTheDecision	24.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before adverting to the precedents in which Section 5A has been interpreted by this <ORG>, it will be useful to notice development of the law relating to the rule of hearing.
Precedent	In the celebrated case of <NAME> v. <ORG> (1863) 143 ER 414, the principle was stated thus:    "Even <NAME> did not pass a sentence upon <NAME>, before he was called upon to make his defence.
Precedent	"<NAME>" says <NAME>, "where art thou?
Precedent	hast thou not eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat".
Precedent	Therein <ORG> had brought down the house of the plaintiff's (<NAME>), because he had failed to comply with The Metropolis Local Management Act.
Precedent	The Act required the plaintiff to notify the board seven days before starting to build the house.
Precedent	<NAME> argued that even though the board had the le gal authority to tear his house down, no person should be deprived of their property without notice.
Precedent	In spite of no express words in the statute the court recognized the right of hearing before the plaintiff's house built without permission was demolished in the exercise of statutory powers.
Precedent	<NAME> stated:    `Although there are not positive words in a statute requiring that the party shall be heard, yet the justice of the common law shall supply the omission of the legislature'.
Precedent	25.
Argument	Perhaps the best known statement on the right to be heard has come from Lord <NAME>, L.C.
Argument	in <CITATION_1798267> (1911 AC 179 at  182), where he observed:    "Comparatively recent statutes have extended, if they have originated, the practice of imposing upon departments or offices of <ORG> the duty of deciding or determining questions of various kinds...In such cases... they must act in good faith and fairly listen to both sides, for that is a duty lying upon everyone who decides anything.
Precedent	But I do not think they are bound t o treat such questions as though it were a trial ...they can obtain information in any way they think best, always giving a fair opportunity to those who are parties in the controversy for correcting or contradicting any relevant statement prejudicial in their view."
Precedent	26.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> 1964 AC 40 Lord <NAME> emphasized on the universality of the right to a fair hearing whether it concerns the property or tenure of an office or membership of an institution.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> 1983 2 AC 237, Lord <NAME> said that the right of a man to be given a fair opportunity of hearing, what is alleged against him and of presenting his own case is so fundamental to any civilized legal system that it is to be presumed that <ORG> intended that failure to observe the same should render null and void any decision reached in breach of this requirement.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> 1987 AC 625 Lord <NAME> said:  "My Lords, the so-called rules of natural justice are not engraved on tablets of stone.
Precedent	To use the phrase which  better expresses the underlying concept, what the requirements of fairness demand when any body, domestic, administrative or judicial, has to make a decision which will affect the rights of individuals depends on the character of the decision-making body, the kind of decision it has to make and the statutory or other framework in which it operates.
Precedent	In particular, it is well- established that when a statute has conferred on any body the power to make decisions affecting individuals, the courts will not only require the procedure prescribed by the statute to be followed, but will readily imply so much and no more to be introduced by way of additional procedural safeguards as will ensure the attainment of fairness."
Precedent	27.
Precedent	In the United States, principles of natural justice usually find support from the Due Process clause of the Constitution.
Precedent	The extent of due process protection required is determined by a number of factors; first the private interest that will be affected by the official action; second, the ris k of an erroneous deprivation of such interest through the procedures used, and the probable value, if any, of additional or substitute procedural requirement would entail.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	The amplitude, ambit and width of the rule of audi alteram partem was lucidly stated by the three-Judge bench in <CITATION_1764789>  in the following words:    "11..........This unwritten right of hearing is fundamental to a just decision by any authority which decides a controversial issue affecting the rights of the rival contestants.
Precedent	This right has its roots in the notion of fair procedure.
Precedent	It draws the attention of the party concerned to the imperative necessity of not overlooking the other side of the case before coming to its decision, for nothing is more likely to conduce to just and right decision than the practice of giving hearing to the affected parties."
Precedent	29.
Precedent	<CITATION_1831036> , <NAME> speaking for himself, Beg CJ and <NAME> highlighted the importance of rule of hearing in the following words:  "43.
Precedent	Ind eed, natural justice is a pervasive facet of secular law where a spiritual touch enlivens legislation, administration and adjudication, to make fairness a creed of life.
Precedent	It has, many colours and shades, many forms and shapes and, save where valid law excludes it, applies when people are affected by acts of authority.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is the hone of healthy government, recognised from earliest times and not a mystic testament of Judge-made law.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, from the legendary days of <NAME> -- and of <NAME>'s Arthasastra -- the rule of law has had this stamp of natural justice which makes it social justice.
RatioOfTheDecision	We need not go into these deeps for the present except to indicate that the roots of natural justice and its foliage are noble and not new-fangled.
RatioOfTheDecision	Today its application must be sustained by current legislation, case-law or other extant principle, not the hoary chords of legend and history.
RatioOfTheDecision	Our jurisprudence has sanctioned its prevalence even like the Anglo-American system.
Precedent	..... ..... .....    48.
Precedent	Once we understand the sou l of the rule as fair play in action -- and it is so -- we must hold that it extends to both the fields.
Precedent	After all, administrative power in a democratic set-up is not allergic to fairness in action and discretionary executive justice cannot degenerate into unilateral injustice.
Precedent	Nor is there ground to be frightened of delay, inconvenience and expense, if natural justice gains access.
Precedent	For fairness itself is a flexible, pragmatic and relative concept, not a rigid, ritualistic or sophisticated abstraction.
Precedent	It is not a bull in a <NAME> shop, nor a bee in one's bonnet.
Precedent	Its essence is good conscience in a given situation: nothing more -- but nothing less.
Precedent	The "exceptions" to the rules of natural justice are a misnomer or rather are but a shorthand form of expressing the idea that in those exclusionary cases nothing unfair can be inferred by not affording an opportunity to present or meet a case.
Precedent	Text-book excerpts and ratios from rulings can be heaped, but they all converge to the same point that audi alteram partem  is the justice of the law, without, of course, making law lifeless, absurd, stultifying, self-defeating or plainly contrary to the common sense of the situation."
Precedent	30.
Precedent	<CITATION_1766147> , <NAME> speaking for himself and <ORG> and <NAME> observed:  "14.
Precedent	...........The audi alteram partem rule is intended to inject justice into the law and it cannot be applied to defeat the ends of justice, or to make the law "lifeless, absurd, stultifying, self- defeating or plainly contrary to the common sense of the situation".
Precedent	Since the life of the law is not logic but experience and every legal proposition must, in the ultimate analysis, be tested on the touchstone of pragmatic realism, the audi alteram partem rule would, by the experiential test, be excluded, if importing the right to be heard has the effect of paralysing the administrative process or the need for promptitude or the urgency of the situation so demands.
Precedent	But at the same time it must be remembered that this is a rule of vital importance in th e field of administrative law and it must not be jettisoned save in very exceptional circumstances where compulsive necessity so demands.
Precedent	It is a wholesome rule designed to secure the rule of law and the court should not be too ready to eschew it in its application to a given case.
Precedent	True it is that in questions of this kind a fanatical or doctrinaire approach should be avoided, but that does not mean that merely because the traditional methodology of a formalised hearing may have the effect of stultifying the exercise of the statutory power, the audi alteram partem should be wholly excluded.
Precedent	The court must make every effort to salvage this cardinal rule to the maximum extent permissible in a given case.
Precedent	It must not be forgotten that "natural justice is pragmatically flexible and is amenable to capsulation under the compulsive pressure of circumstances".
Precedent	<ORG> is not cast in a rigid mould and judicial decisions establish that it may suffer situational modifications.
Precedent	The core of it must,  however, remain, namely, that the person affected must have a reasonable opportunity of being heard and the hearing must be a genuine hearing and not an empty public relations exercise."
Precedent	(emphasis supplied)  31.
Precedent	<CITATION_859161>  the majority of the three Judge Bench held that rule of audi alteram partem must be complied with even when the Government exercises power under Section 18AA of the Industries (Development & Regulation) Act , 1951 which empowers <ORG> to authorise taking over of the management of industrial undertaking.
Precedent	<NAME> speaking for himself and <NAME> referred to the development of law relating to applicability of the rule of audi alteram partem to administrative actions, noticed the judgments in <NAME> v. <NAME> (supra), <CITATION_639803> (1969) 2 SCC 262, <CITATION_817954> (supra), <CITATION_1766147> (supra) and <ORG> v Dr. <NAME> 1967 (2) SCR 625 and quashed the order passed by <ORG> for taking over the management of the industrial  undertaking of the appellant on the ground that opportunity of hearing has not been given to the owner of the undertaking and remanded the matter for fresh consideration and compliance of the rule of audi alteram partem.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	<CITATION_1564044> , the three Judge Bench of this Court emphasised the importance of Section 5A in the following words:    "7.
Precedent	............Sub-section (2) of Section 5-A makes it obligatory on the Collector to give an objector an opportunity of being heard.
RatioOfTheDecision	After hearing all objections and making further inquiry he is to make a report to the appropriate <ORG> containing his recommendation on the objections.
RatioOfTheDecision	The decision of the appropriate <ORG> on the objections is then final.
RatioOfTheDecision	The declaration under Section 6 has to be made after the appropriate <ORG> is satisfied, on a consideration of the report, if any, made by the Collector under Section 5-A(2) .
RatioOfTheDecision	The legislature has, therefore, made complete provisions for the persons interested to file objections against the proposed  acquisition and for the disposal of their objections.
Precedent	It is only in cases of urgency that special powers have been conferred on the appropriate <ORG> to dispense with the provisions of Section 5-A : [See Section 17(4) of the Acquisition Act.]"
Precedent	33.
Precedent	<CITATION_354241> , <NAME> emphasized the necessity of reasonableness and fairness in the State action of invoking the urgency provision in the following words:  "16..........it is fundamental that compulsory taking of a man's property is a serious matter and the smaller the man the more serious the matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hearing him before depriving him is both reasonable and pre-emptive of arbitrariness, and denial of this administrative fairness is constitutional anathema except for good reasons.
RatioOfTheDecision	Save in real urgency where public interest does not brook even the minimum time needed to give a hearing land acquisition authorities should not, having regard to Articles 14 (and 19), burke an enquiry under Section 17 of the Act.
Precedent	Here a slumbering process, pending for  years and suddenly exciting itself into immediate forcible taking, makes a travesty of emergency power."
Precedent	34.
Precedent	<CITATION_1003330> , this Court reiterated that the compliance of Section 5A is mandatory and observed as under:    "10............The decision of the Collector is supposedly final unless the appropriate Government chooses to interfere therein and cause affectation, suo motu or on the application of any person interested in the land.
RatioOfTheDecision	These requirements obviously lead to the positive conclusion that the proceeding before the Collector is a blend of public and individual enquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	The person interested, or known to be interested, in the land is to be served personally of the notification, giving him the opportunity of objecting to the acquisition and awakening him to such right.
RatioOfTheDecision	That the objection is to be in writing, is indicative of the fact that the enquiry into the objection is to focus his individual cause as well as public cause.
Precedent	That at the time of the enquiry, for which prior notice shall be e ssential, the objector has the right to appear in person or through pleader and substantiate his objection by evidence and argument."
Precedent	35.
Precedent	The ratio of <CITATION_1564044> (supra) has been reiterated and followed in <CITATION_1481537> , <CITATION_165105>  and <CITATION_1273595> (supra).
Precedent	36.
Precedent	The acquisition of land under Section 4 read with Section 17(1) and/or 17(4) has generated substantial litigation in last 50 years.
Precedent	One of the earliest judgments on the subject is <CITATION_1296240> (1964) 3 SCR 425.
Precedent	In that case, the acquisition of land for construction of tenements for the 4th phase of subsidized industrial housing scheme sponsored by the State Government, as also for general improvement and street Scheme No.XX of <ORG> by issuing notification under Section 4 read with Section 17(1) , (1-A) and 17(4) was challenged.
Precedent	The learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of <ORG> negatived the appellants' challenge by observing that once Section 17 is invoked, there was  no necessity to hold enquiry under Section 5A .
Precedent	This Court set aside the order of <ORG> of <ORG> and held:    "It will be seen that Section 17(1) gives power to the Government to direct the Collector, though no award has been made under Section11, to take possession of any waste or arable land needed for public purpose and such land thereupon vests absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances.
RatioOfTheDecision	If action is taken under Section 17(1) , taking possession and vesting which are provided in Section 16 after the award under Section 11 are accelerated and can take place fifteen days after the publication of the notice under Section 9 .
RatioOfTheDecision	Then comes Section 17(4) which provides that in case of any land to which the provisions of sub-section (1) are applicable, the Government may direct that the provisions of Section 5-A shall not apply and if it does so direct, a declaration may be made under Section 6 in respect of the land at any time after the publication of the notification under Se ction 4(1) .
RatioOfTheDecision	It will be seen that it is not necessary even where the Government makes a direction under Section 17(1) that it should also make a direction under Section 17(4) .
RatioOfTheDecision	If the Government makes a direction only under Section 17(1) the procedure under Section 5-A would still have to be followed before a notification under Section 6 is issued, though after that procedure has been followed and a notification under Section 6 is issued the Collector gets the power to take possession of the land after the notice under Section 9 without waiting for the award and on such taking possession the land shall vest absolutely in Government free from all encumbrances.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is only when the Government also makes a declaration under Section 17 (4) that it becomes unnecessary to take action under Section 5-A and make a report thereunder.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may be that generally where an order is made under Section 17(1) , an order under Section 17(4) is also passed; but in law it is not necessary that this should be so.
Precedent	It will also be se en that under the Land Acquisition Act an order under Section 17(1) or Section 17(4) can only be passed with respect to waste or arable land and it cannot be passed with respect to land which is not waste or arable and on which buildings stand."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  37.
Precedent	<CITATION_35662889> (1967) 1 SCR 373, <ORG> considered the legality of the acquisition of 409.6 acres of land in village Markundi Ghurma, Pargana Agori for a public purpose i.e.
Precedent	for limestone quarry.
Precedent	The State Government invoked Section 17(1) and 17(4) , dispensed with requirement of hearing envisaged under Section 5-A and directed the Collector and District Magistrate, Mirzapur to take the possession of land.
Precedent	<ORG> dismissed the writ petition filed by the appellant by observing that the Court cannot interfere with the subjective satisfaction reached by the State Government on the issue of urgency.
Precedent	This Court agreed with <ORG> that the acquisition was for a public purpose but held that the expressi on of opinion by <ORG> on the issue of invoking urgency provision can be challenged on the ground of non application of mind or <NAME> fides.
Precedent	The Court relied upon the judgments in <NAME> v. <NAME>, Criminal Appeal No.110 of 1966 decided on July 27, 1966; <CITATION_610740> (1958) 1 WLR 546; <ORG> v. <ORG> (1914) 1 Ch 438; <NAME> v. <NAME> 44 1A 117 and R. v. Australian Stevedoring Industry Board 39 1A 133 and observed:  "It is true that the opinion of <ORG> which is a condition for the exercise of the power under Section 17 (4) of the Act, is subjective and a court cannot normally enquire whether there were sufficient grounds or justification of the opinion formed by <ORG> under Section 17(4) .
Precedent	The legal position has been explained by <ORG> in <NAME> v. <NAME> and by this Court in a recent case - <CITATION_610740> .
RatioOfTheDecision	But even though the power of <ORG> ernment has been formulated under Section 17(4) of the Act in subjective terms the expression of opinion of <ORG> can be challenged as ultra vires in a court of law if it could be shown that <ORG> never applied it mind to the matter or that the action of <ORG> is <NAME> fide.
RatioOfTheDecision	If therefore in a case the land under acquisition is not actually waste or arable land but <ORG> has formed the opinion that the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 17 are applicable, the court may legitimately draw an inference that <ORG> did not honestly form that opinion or that in forming that opinion <ORG> did not apply its mind to the relevant facts bearing on the question at issue.
RatioOfTheDecision	It follows therefore that the notification of <ORG> under Section 17 (4) of the Act directing that the provisions of Section 5-A shall not apply to the land is ultra vires."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  38.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_202223> (supra), this Court while app roving the judgment of <ORG>, which quashed the acquisition made under Section 4 read with Section 17(1) and 17(4) held as under:    "38.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, the purpose of Section 17(4) of the Act is, obviously, not merely to confine action under it to waste and arable land but also to situations in which an inquiry under Section 5-A will serve no useful purpose, or, for some overriding reason, it should be dispensed with.
RatioOfTheDecision	The mind of the officer or authority concerned has to be applied to the question whether there is an urgency of such a nature that even the summary proceedings under Section 5-A of the Act should be eliminated.
Precedent	It is not just the existence of an urgency but the need to dispense with an inquiry under Section 5-A which has to be considered.
Precedent	40.
Precedent	In the case before us, the public purpose indicated is the development of an area for industrial and residential purposes.
Precedent	This, in itself, on the face of it, does not call for any such action, barring exceptional circumstances, as to make immediate  possession, without holding even a summary enquiry under Section 5-A of the Act, imperative.
Precedent	On the other hand, such schemes generally take sufficient period of time to enable at least summary inquiries under Section 5-A of the Act to be completed without any impediment whatsoever to the execution of the scheme.
Precedent	Therefore, the very statement of the public purpose for which the land was to be acquired indicated the absence of such urgency, on the apparent facts of the case, as to require the elimination of an enquiry under Section 5-A of the Act.
Precedent	42.
Precedent	All schemes relating to development of industrial and residential areas must be urgent in the context of the country's need for increased production and more residential accommodation.
Precedent	Yet, the very nature of such schemes of development does not appear to demand such emergent action as to eliminate summary enquiries under Section 5-A of the Act......................."  (emphasis supplied)  39.
Precedent	The next judgment which deserves to be mentioned is <ORG> v St ate of U.P.
Precedent	(supra).
Precedent	In 1976, <ORG> acquired large tracts of land in different villages of Ghaziabad District including village Chhalera Banger for planned industrial development of Ghaziabad.
Precedent	On being approached by <ORG>, <ORG> invoked Section 17 (1) and 17(4) on the ground that the land was urgently required.
Precedent	In 1987, more lands were acquired from the same village by issuing notification under Section 4 .
Precedent	This time the land owners were given opportunity to file their objections and after considering the same, <ORG> issued notification under Section 6 for the acquisition of 353 acres land.
Precedent	In 1988, <ORG> submitted fresh proposal for the acquisition of land belonging to the appellants and others (total land measuring 294.26 acres).
Precedent	<ORG> issued notification under Section 4 read with Section 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act clearly indicating therein that Section 5-A was not applicable.
Precedent	The writ petitions filed by the land owners were dismissed by <ORG>.
Precedent	After no ticing the arguments of the learned counsel for the parties, this Court framed the following questions.
Precedent	"1.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether the State authorities were justified in invoking Section 17(4) of the Act for dispensing with inquiry under Section 5-A of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	2.
RatioOfTheDecision	In any case, whether the appellants' lands have to be treated as immune from acquisition proceedings on the ground that they were having abadi thereon and were, therefore, governed by the policy decision of the State of U.P.
RatioOfTheDecision	not to acquire such lands.
RatioOfTheDecision	3.
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether this Court should refuse to exercise its discretionary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India in the facts and circumstances of the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
RatioOfTheDecision	What final orders."
RatioOfTheDecision	While dealing with question No.1, the Court noticed the scheme of Section 17 , referred to the pleadings of the parties, and the judgments in <CITATION_469498> (supra), <CITATION_202223> (supra), <CITATION_37963> , <CITATION_354241> (supra), <CITATION_1296240> .
RatioOfTheDecision	(supra), <CITATION_1929828> .
Precedent	, <CITATION_246911> (1996)  2 SCC 365, <CITATION_640323>  and held that the decision to dispense with the inquiry envisaged under Section 5-A was not based on any real and genuine subjective satisfaction.
Precedent	In the process, the Court noted that in 1989 <ORG> had not resorted to Section 17 and the acquisition proceedings were finalized after holding inquiry under Section 5-A and observed:    "We were informed by Senior Counsel <NAME> for <ORG> that even though in the earlier acquisition of 1987 pursuant to Section 4 notification, inquiry under Section 5-A was not dispensed with, by the time Section 6 notification came to be issued, Section 17(1) was resorted to as urgency had developed at least by the end of December 1989.
RatioOfTheDecision	If that be so, it was expected that pursuant to the requisition of 14-12-1989 by <ORG> invoking urgency powers of <ORG>, consequential notification under Section 4(1) would have seen the light of day at the earliest in connection with acquisition of the proposed 494.26 acres of land for  the development of Sector 43 and other sectors.
RatioOfTheDecision	But curiously enough, nothing happened urgently and Section 4 notification which is impugned in the present case was issued on 5-1-1991.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus despite the invocation of urgency by <ORG> by its letter dated 14-12-1989, it appears that the <ORG> did not think the said proposal to be so urgent as to immediately respond and to issue notification under Section 4 read with Section 17 sub-section (4) till 5-1-1991.
RatioOfTheDecision	More than one year elapsed in the meantime.
RatioOfTheDecision	Why this delay took place and why the <ORG> did not think it fit to urgently respond to the proposal of <ORG>, has remained a question mark for which there is no answer furnished by the respondent-authorities in the present cases and nothing is brought on the record by them to explain the delay.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has, therefore, necessarily to be presumed that despite the emergency powers of the <ORG> Government being invoked by <ORG>, the <ORG> authorities in their wisdom did not think the matter to be so urgent as to immediately  respond and promptly issue Section 4 notification read with Section 17(4) .
RatioOfTheDecision	Even that apart, despite proposal to acquire this land was moved by <ORG> as early as on 14-6-1988, and even thereafter when the request was sent in this communication on 14-12-  1989, the <ORG> authorities did not think the situation to be so urgent as to respond quickly and could wait for more than one year.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the appellants in the writ petitions before <ORG> raised their grievances regarding dispensing with inquiry under Section 5-A being not backed up by relevant evidence and the subjective satisfaction of the <ORG> in this connection was brought in challenge, all that was stated by <ORG> in its counter in para 26 was to the effect that the contents of paras 25 and 26 of the writ petition were denied and that the petitioners were not able to point out any lacunae in the proceedings under the Land Acquisition Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	The position was no better so far as the counter of the <ORG> authorities was concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	In para 24 of  the counter before <ORG>, all that was stated was that paras 25 and 26 of the writ petition were denied.
RatioOfTheDecision	When we turn to paras 25 and 26 of the writ petition, we find averments to the effect that the urgency of the acquisition was only for the purpose of depriving the petitioners of their rights to file objections under Section 5-A and their right to hold the possession till they got compensation for which the respondents had issued notification under Section 17(1) as well as notification Section 17(4) of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	But so far as the process of the acquisition was concerned, the respondents were taking their own time, which would be evident from the fact that the notification under Section 4 read with Section 17(4) was issued on 5-1-1991 but was published in the newspaper on 30-3- 1991, whereas the declaration under Section 6 of the Act was made on 7-1-1992 and that on the one hand, the respondents had deprived the petitioners of filing their objections under Section 5-A of the Act on the ground of urg ency of acquisition, but on the other hand, they themselves had taken more than nine months in issuing the declaration under Section 6 of the said Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	This conduct of the respondents falsified their claim of urgency of acquisition.
RatioOfTheDecision	... ... ...
RatioOfTheDecision	The additional material which was produced before <ORG> was by way of Annexures CA-3, CA-4 and CA-5.
RatioOfTheDecision	When we turn to these annexures, we find that AnnexureCA-3 is a letter dated 21-4-1990 written by the District Magistrate, Ghaziabad, to the Joint Secretary, <ORG>, Government of Uttar Pradesh.
RatioOfTheDecision	It recites that on examination, it was found that the land was immediately required in public interest so that the development work in the said land could be carried out smoothly.
RatioOfTheDecision	What was the nature of urgency is not mentioned in the said letter.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the position remains as vague as it was earlier.
RatioOfTheDecision	When we turn to Annexure CA-4 which is dated 12-6-1990, we find that the District Magistrate, Ghaziabad wrote to the Joint Secretary, <ORG>, State of U.P.,  that as to how many farmers were going to be affected by the proposed acquisition.
RatioOfTheDecision	It does not even whisper about the urgency of the situation which requires dispensing with Section 5-A inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	The last, Annexure CA-5 is the letter dated 14-12-1989 written by <ORG> to the Land Acquisition Officer proposing urgent acquisition of the lands in question.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already made a reference to the said letter.
RatioOfTheDecision	It recites that if immediate action for acquisition of the aforesaid lands adjacent to Sector 43 for development of which the acquisition was to be resorted to was not taken, then there was possibility of encroachment over the area cannot by any stretch of imagination be considered to be a germane ground for invoking urgency powers for dispensing with Section 5-A inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if acquisition takes place urgently by dispensing with inquiry under Section 5-A and the possession is taken urgently after Section 6 notification within 15 days of issuance of notice under Section 9 sub-section (1), even then there is  no guarantee that the acquired land would not be encroached upon by unruly persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is a law and order problem which has nothing to do with the acquisition and urgency for taking possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even that apart, it is easy to visualize that if objectors are heard in connection with Section 5-A inquiry they would be the best person to protect their properties against encroachers.
RatioOfTheDecision	Consequently, the ground put forward by <ORG> in its written request dated 14-12-1989 for invoking urgency powers must be held to be totally irrelevant."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  40.
RatioOfTheDecision	We may now notice some recent decisions.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1481537> (supra), this <ORG> interpreted Sections 5-A and 17 and observed:   "32.
RatioOfTheDecision	A careful perusal of this provision which is an exception to the normal mode of acquisition contemplated under the Act shows that mere existence of urgency or unforeseen emergency though is a condition precedent for invoking Section 17(4) , that by itself is not sufficient to direct the dispensation of the Section 5-A inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	I t requires an opinion to be formed by the <ORG> concerned that along with the existence of such urgency or unforeseen emergency there is also a need for dispensing with Section 5-A inquiry which indicates that the legislature intended the appropriate <ORG> to apply its mind before dispensing with Section 5-A inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	It also indicates that mere existence of an urgency under Section 17(1) or unforeseen emergency under Section 17(2) would not by itself be sufficient for dispensing with Section 5-A inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	If that was not the intention of the legislature then the latter part of sub-section (4) of Section 17 would not have been necessary and the legislature in Sections 17(1) and (2) itself could have incorporated that in such situation of existence of urgency or unforeseen emergency automatically Section 5-A inquiry will be dispensed with.
RatioOfTheDecision	But then that is not the language of the section which in our opinion requires the appropriate <ORG> to further consider the need for dispensing with Section 5- A inquiry in spite of the existence of unforeseen emergency.
RatioOfTheDecision	33.
RatioOfTheDecision	An argument was sought to be advanced on behalf of the appellants that once the appropriate <ORG> comes to the conclusion that there is an urgency or unforeseen emergency under Sections 17(1) and (2), the dispensation with inquiry under Section 5-A becomes automatic and the same can be done by a composite order meaning thereby that there is no need for the appropriate <ORG> to separately apply its mind for any further emergency for dispensation with an inquiry under Section 5-A .
RatioOfTheDecision	We are unable to agree with the above argument because sub-section (4) of Section 17 itself indicates that the "<ORG> may direct that the p rovisions of Section 5-A shall not apply" (emphasis supplied) which makes it clear that not in every case where the appropriate <ORG> has come to the conclusion that there is urgency and under sub-section (1) or unforeseen emergency under sub- section (2) of Section 17 , the <ORG> will ipso facto have to  direct the dispensation of the inquiry."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)   41.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1704181> , this Court approved quashing of the acquisition proceedings by <ORG> and observed:    "16.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 17 confers extraordinary powers on the authorities under which it can dispense with the normal procedure laid down under Section 5-A of the Act in exceptional case of urgency.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such powers cannot be lightly resorted to except in case of real urgency enabling the Government to take immediate possession of the land proposed to be acquired for public purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	A public purpose, however laudable it may be, by itself is not sufficient to take aid of Section 17 to use this extraordinary power as use of such power deprives a landowner of his right in relation to immovable property to file objections for the proposed acquisition and it also dispenses with the inquiry under Section 5-A of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The authority must have subjective satisfaction of the need for invoking urgency clause under Section 17 keeping in mind the nature  of the public purpose, real urgency that the situation demands and the time factor i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	whether taking possession of the property can wait for a minimum period within which the objections could be received from the landowners and the inquiry under Section 5- A of the Act could be completed.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, if power under Section 17 is not exercised, the very purpose for which the land is being acquired urgently would be frustrated or defeated.
RatioOfTheDecision	Normally urgency to acquire a land for public purpose does not arise suddenly or overnight but sometimes such urgency may arise unexpectedly, exceptionally or extraordinarily depending on situations such as due to earthquake, flood or some specific time-bound project where the delay is likely to render the purpose nugatory or infructuous.
RatioOfTheDecision	A citizen's property can be acquired in accordance with law but in the absence of real and genuine urgency, it may not be appropriate to deprive an aggrieved party of a fair and just opportunity of putting forth its objections for due  consideration of the acquiring authority.
RatioOfTheDecision	While applying the urgency clause, the <ORG> should indeed act with due care and responsibility.
RatioOfTheDecision	Invoking urgency clause cannot be a substitute or support for the laxity, lethargy or lack of care on the part of the <ORG> administration."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  42.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1128835> (supra), the <ORG> again dealt with the question whether the <ORG> was justified in invoking Section 17(1) and 17(4) and dispensing with the inquiry under Section 5-A and held:    "53.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 17 , no doubt, deals with special situations and exceptional circumstances covering cases of "urgency" and "unforeseen emergency".
RatioOfTheDecision	In case of "urgency" falling under sub-section (1) of Section 17 or of "unforeseen emergency" covered by sub-section (2) of Section 17 , special powers may be exercised by appropriate <ORG> but as held by a three- Judge Bench decision before more than four decades in Nandeshwar Prasad and reiterated by a three-Judge Bench decision in Mukesh Hans, even in such cases,  inquiry and hearing of objections under Section 5-A cannot ipso facto be dispensed with unless a notification under sub-section (4) of Section 17 of the Act is issued.
RatioOfTheDecision	The legislative scheme is amply clear which merely enables the appropriate Government to issue such notification under sub-section (4) of Section 17 of the Act dispensing with inquiry under Section 5-A if the Government intends to exercise the said power.
RatioOfTheDecision	The use of the expression "may" in sub-section (4) of Section 17 leaves no room of doubt that it is a discretionary power of the government to direct that the provisions of Section 5-A would not apply to such cases covered by sub-section (1) or (2) of Section 17 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	54.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion, therefore, the contention of learned counsel for the respondent authorities is not well founded and cannot be upheld that once a case is covered by sub-section (1) or (2) of Section 17 of the Act, sub-section (4) of Section 17 would necessarily apply and there is no question of holding inquiry or hearin g objections under Section 5-A of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Acceptance of such contention or upholding of this argument will make sub-section (4) of Section 17 totally otiose, redundant and nugatory."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)  43.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_768110> , this <ORG> reversed the judgment of <ORG> and quashed the notification issued by <ORG> under Section 4 read with Section 17(1) and 17(4) for the acquisition of land for construction of sewage treatment plant.
RatioOfTheDecision	After noticing the judgments in <CITATION_354241> (supra), <CITATION_705558> .
Precedent	(supra) and <CITATION_1704181> (supra), the <ORG> observed:    "As indicated hereinabove in the various cases cited by Mr.<NAME> and, in particular, the decision in <NAME> case, in which reference has been made to the observations made by this <ORG> in <NAME> case, it has been emphasized that a right under Section 5-A is not merely statutory but also has the flavour of fundamental rights under Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution.
Precedent	Such observations had b een made in reference to an observation made in the earlier decision in <NAME> case and keeping in mind the fact that right to property was no longer a fundamental right, an observation was made that even if the right to property was no longer a fundamental right, the observations relating to Article 14 would continue to apply in full force with regard to Section 5-A of the LA Act."
Precedent	44.
Precedent	<CITATION_1273595> .
Precedent	(supra), the two-Judge Bench considered the question whether the State Government was justified in invoking Section 17(4) for the acquisition of land for residential colony to be constructed by <ORG>, Gorakhpur.
Precedent	The Court noted that notifications under Section 4(1) read with Section 17(1) and 17(4) were issued on November 23, 2003 and February 20, 2004 and declaration under Section 6 was issued on December 24, 2004, referred to 16 judicial precedents including those noticed hereinabove and held:  "The exceptional and extraordinary power of doing away with an enquiry unde r Section 5-A in a case where possession of the land is required urgently or in an unforeseen emergency is provided in Section 17 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such power is not a routine power and save circumstances warranting immediate possession it should not be lightly invoked.
RatioOfTheDecision	The guideline is inbuilt in Section 17 itself for exercise of the exceptional power in dispensing with enquiry under Section 5-A .
RatioOfTheDecision	Exceptional the power, the more circumspect the Government must be in its exercise.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Government obviously, therefore, has to apply its mind before it dispenses with enquiry under Section 5-A on the aspect whether the urgency is of such a nature that justifies elimination of summary enquiry under Section 5-A .
RatioOfTheDecision	A repetition of the statutory phrase in the notification that <ORG> is satisfied that the land specified in the notification is urgently needed and the provision contained in Section 5-A shall not apply, though may initially raise a presumption in favour of the Government that prerequisite conditio ns for exercise of such power have been satisfied, but such presumption may be displaced by the circumstances themselves having no reasonable nexus with the purpose for which the power has been exercised.
RatioOfTheDecision	Upon challenge being made to the use of power under Section 17 , the <ORG> must produce appropriate material before the Court that the opinion for dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5-A has been formed by the <ORG> after due application of mind on the material placed before it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that power conferred upon the <ORG> under Section 17 is administrative and its opinion is entitled to due weight, but in a case where the opinion is formed regarding the urgency based on considerations not germane to the purpose, the judicial review of such administrative decision may become necessary.
RatioOfTheDecision	As to in what circumstances the power of emergency can be invoked are specified in Section 17(2) but circumstances necessitating invocation of urgency under Section 17(1) are not stated in the provis ion itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	Generally speaking the development of an area (for residential purposes) or a planned development of city, takes many years if not decades and, therefore, there is no reason why summary enquiry as contemplated under Section 5-A may not be held and objections of landowners / persons interested may not be considered.
RatioOfTheDecision	In many cases, on general assumption likely delay in completion of enquiry under Section 5-A is set up as a reason for invocation of extraordinary power in dispensing with the enquiry little realizing that an important and valuable right of the person interested in the land is being taken away and with some effort enquiry could always be completed expeditiously.
RatioOfTheDecision	The special provision has been made in Section 17 to eliminate enquiry under Section 5-A in deserving and cases of real urgency.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Government has to apply its mind on the aspect that urgency is of such nature that necessitates dispensation of enquiry under Section 5-A .
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already noticed a few decisions of this <ORG> viz .
RatioOfTheDecision	Narayan Govind Gavate and <NAME>.
Precedent	In Om Prakash this Court held that the decision in <NAME> must be confined to the fact situation in those days when it was rendered and the two-Judge Bench could not have laid down a proposition contrary to the decision in Narayan Govind Gavate.
RatioOfTheDecision	We agree.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards the issue whether pre-notification and post- notification delay would render the invocation of urgency power void, again the case law is not consistent.
RatioOfTheDecision	The view of this Court has differed on this aspect due to different fact situation prevailing in those cases.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our opinion such delay will have material bearing on the question of invocation of urgency power, particularly in a situation where no material has been placed by the appropriate <ORG> before the Court justifying that urgency was of such nature that necessitated elimination of enquiry under Section 5-A ."
RatioOfTheDecision	(emphasis supplied)   45.
Precedent	In Civil Appeal No.2334 of 2011, <CITATION_1992267> ., decided on March 7, 2011, the acquisition of land fo r construction of district jails was quashed on the ground that there was no valid ground or justification to exclude the application of Section 5-A of the Act and it was observed:    "...Admittedly, the Land Acquisition Act , a pre-Constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law, being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the <ORG> a power which affects person's property right.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even though right to property is no longer fundamental and was never a natural right, and is acquired on a concession by the <ORG>, it has to be accepted that without right to some property, other rights become illusory.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG> is considering these questions, especially, in the context of some recent trends in land acquisition.
RatioOfTheDecision	This <ORG> is of the opinion that the concept of public purpose in land acquisition has to be viewed from an angle which is consistent with the concept of a welfare <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The concept of public purpose cannot remain static for all time to come.
RatioOfTheDecision	The concept, even though sought to be defi ned under Section 3(f) of the Act, is not capable of any precise definition.
RatioOfTheDecision	The said definition, having suffered several amendments, has assumed the character of an inclusive one.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must be accepted that in construing public purpose, a broad and overall view has to be taken and the focus must be on ensuring maximum benefit to the largest number of people.
RatioOfTheDecision	Any attempt by the <ORG> to acquire land by promoting a pubic purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre-Constitutional legislation, its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under Fundamental Rights and also the Directive Principles.
RatioOfTheDecision	In construing the concept of public purpose, the mandate of Article 13 of the Constitution that any pre-constitutional law cannot in any way  take away or abridge rights conferred under Part-III must be kept in mind.
RatioOfTheDecision	By judicial interpretation the contents of these Part III rights are constantly expanded.
RatioOfTheDecision	The meaning of public purpose in acquisition of land must be judged on the touchstone of this expanded view of Part-III rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	The open-ended nature of our Constitution needs a harmonious reconciliation between various competing principles and the overhanging shadows of socio-economic reality in this country.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power under Section 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under Section 5A of the said Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> must examine these questions very carefully when little Indians lose their small property in the name of mindless acquisition at the instance of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	If public purpose can be satisfied by not rendering common man homeless and by exploring other avenues of acquisition, the <ORG>, before sanctioning an  acquisition, must in exercise of its power of judicial review, focus its attention on the concept of social and economic justice.
RatioOfTheDecision	While examining these questions of public importance, the <ORG> especially the Higher <ORG>, cannot afford to act as mere umpires. "
RatioOfTheDecision	46.
RatioOfTheDecision	To be fair to the respondents, we may also notice the judgments in which the decision of the <ORG> to invoke Section 17(1) and/or 17(4) has been upheld.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_469498> (supra), this Court examined the justification of invoking Section 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act for the acquisition of over 662 Bighas land situated in village Mukarrabpur, District Meerut for providing housing accommodation.
Precedent	The two-Judge Bench distinguished the three-Judge Bench judgment in <CITATION_202223> (supra), by observing that after that decision, population of India had gone up by hundreds of millions and it was no longer possible for the Court to take the view that the schemes of development of residential areas do not appear to demand such emergent action as to e liminate summary inquiries under Section 5-A of the Act.
Precedent	47.
Precedent	<CITATION_37963> (supra), this Court set aside the judgment of the majority of <ORG> of the High Court, which had quashed the acquisition of 2570 bighas land by the State Government by invoking Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act for the benefit of appellant <ORG> and observed:    "The material placed before the Court disclosed that the Government found, on due verification, that there was an acute scarcity of land and there was heavy pressure for construction of houses for weaker sections and middle income group people; that <ORG> had obtained a loan of Rs 16 crores under a time-bound programme to construct and utilise the said amount by March 31, 1983; that in the circumstances the Government was satisfied that unless possession was taken immediately, and <ORG> permitted to proceed with the construction, the <ORG> will not be able to adhere to the time-bound programme.
Precedent	In addition to the said fact, t he <ORG> referred to certain other material also upon which the Government had formed the said satisfaction viz., that in view of the time-bound programme stipulated by the lender, <ORG>, the <ORG> had already appointed a large number of engineers and other subordinate staff for carrying out the said work and that holding an inquiry under Section 5-A would have resulted in uncalled for delay endangering the entire scheme and time- schedule of the Housing <ORG>.
Precedent	If must be remembered that the satisfaction under Section 17(4) is a subjective one and that so long as there is material upon which the Government could have formed the said satisfaction fairly, the <ORG> would not interfere nor would it examine the material as an appellate authority.
Precedent	This is the principle affirmed by decisions of this <ORG> not under  Section 17(4) but also generally with respect to subjective satisfaction."
Precedent	48.
Precedent	<CITATION_18928039> .
Precedent	(supra), the three-Judge <ORG> upheld the acquisition of land under Sections 17 (1A) and  17(4) by observing that the problem of providing houses to the dalits, tribes and poor needed emergency measures and so long as the problem is not solved and the need of that segment of the society is not fulfilled, the urgency continues to subsist.
Precedent	49.
Precedent	<CITATION_308632> , the <ORG> upheld the acquisition of land for <ORG> under Section 17(1) and 17(4) and observed:  "By no stretch of imagination, exercise of power for acquisition can be held to be <NAME> fide, so long as the purpose of acquisition continues and as has already been stated, there existed emergency to acquire the premises in question.
Precedent	The premises which were under occupation of the students of <ORG>, Calcutta, were obviously badly needed for the <ORG> and the appropriate authority having failed in their attempt earlier twice, the orders having been quashed by the High <ORG>, had taken the third attempt of issuing notification under Sections 4(1) and 17(4) of the Act, such acquisition cannot be held to be  <NAME> fide and, therefore, the conclusion of <ORG> in the impugned judgment that the acquisition is <NAME> fide, must be set aside and we accordingly set aside the same."
Precedent	50.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_33396> , the two- Judge Bench mainly considered the questions relating to constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Act nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	8 of 1974 and 5 of 1991 by which amendments were made in Section 17 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	An ancillary question considered by the <ORG> was whether <ORG> was justified in invoking the urgency provision.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Bench referred to some of the precedents on the subject and refused to quash the acquisition by observing that the acquired land has already been utilized for construction of houses by third parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	51.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1963266> , the acquisition of land for construction of Yamuna Expressway was upheld and challenge to the decision of <ORG> to dispense with the inquiry was negatived by making the following observations:  "We have deliberately quoted the above part of  the <ORG> judgment only to show the meticulous care taken by the <ORG> in examining as to whether there was material before <ORG> to dispense with the enquiry under Section 5- A of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are completely convinced that there was necessity in this <ORG> considering the various reasons like enormousness of the <ORG>, likelihood of the encroachments, number of appellants who would have required to be heard and the time taken for that purpose, and the fact that the <ORG> had lingered already from 2001 till 2008.
RatioOfTheDecision	We do not see any reason why we should take a different view than what is taken by the <ORG>."
RatioOfTheDecision	52.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is important to be noted is that in none of the aforementioned judgments, the <ORG> was called upon to examine the legality and/or justification of the exercise of power under Section 17(1) and/or 17(4) for the acquisition of land for residential, commercial or industrial purpose.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_469498> (supra), <CITATION_37963> (supra) and <CITATION_18928039> .
RatioOfTheDecision	(s upra), the invoking of urgency provision contained in Section 17(1) and exclusion of Section 5-A was approved by the <ORG> keeping in view the acute problem of housing, which was perceived as a national problem and for the solution of which national housing policy was framed and the imperative of providing cheaper shelter to dalits, tribals and other disadvantaged sections of the society.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_308632> (supra), the exercise of power under Section 17 was found to be justified because the land was already in the possession of the medical college and the earlier exercise undertaken by the <ORG> for the acquisition of land got frustrated due to intervention of the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The factor, which influenced this <ORG> to approve the judgment of the High <ORG> in <CITATION_33396> (supra) was that the acquired land had already been utilized for construction of houses by third parties to whom the plots had been allotted and they were not parties to the litigation.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_1330367> .
Precedent	(supra), the acquisition was upheld  because the land was urgently needed for construction of Yamuna Expressway and by the time the matter was decided by this <ORG>, huge amount had been spent on the project.
Precedent	As against this, the exercise of power under Section 17(1) and/or 17(4) for the acquisition of land for residential, industrial and commercial purposes, construction of sewage treatment plant and district jails was held to be legally impermissible in <CITATION_35662889> (supra), <CITATION_202223> (supra), <CITATION_705558> .
Precedent	(supra), <CITATION_1704181> (supra), <CITATION_1128835> (supra), <CITATION_768110> (supra) and <CITATION_1273595> (supra).
Precedent	53.
Precedent	From the analysis of the relevant statutory provisions and interpretation thereof by this <ORG> in different cases, the following principles can be culled out:    (i) Eminent domain is a right inherent in every sovereign to take and appropriate property belonging to citizens for public use.
Precedent	To put it differently, the sovereign is entitled to reassert its dominion over any portion of the soil  of the <ORG> including private property without its owner's consent provided that such assertion is on account of public exigency and for public good.
Precedent	- <CITATION_1880952> ., AIR (1954) SC 119, <CITATION_4354> AIR (1951) SC 41 and <CITATION_1515136> (1995) Supp.
Precedent	(1) SCC 596.
Argument	(ii) The legislations which provide for compulsory acquisition of private property by the <ORG> fall in the category of expropriatory legislation and such legislation must be construed strictly - <CITATION_1119469> ; <CITATION_160705552>  and <NAME> v. <ORG> of U.P., Civil Appeal No.2334 of 2011 decided on 7.3.2011.
RatioOfTheDecision	(iii) Though, in exercise of the power of eminent domain, the Government can acquire the private property for public purpose, it must be remembered that compulsory taking of one's property is a serious matter.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the property belongs to economically disadvantaged segment of the society or people suffering from other handicaps, then the <ORG> is not only entitled but is duty bound to scrutinize the action/decision of t he <ORG> with greater vigilance, care and circumspection keeping in view the fact that the land owner is likely to become landless and deprived of the only source of his livelihood and/or shelter.
RatioOfTheDecision	(iv) The property of a citizen cannot be acquired by the <ORG> and/or its agencies/instrumentalities without complying with the mandate of Sections 4 , 5-A and 6 of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	A public purpose, however, laudable it may be does not entitle the <ORG> to invoke the urgency provisions because the same have the effect of depriving the owner of his right to property without being heard.
RatioOfTheDecision	Only in a case of real urgency, the <ORG> can invoke the urgency provisions and dispense with the requirement of hearing the land owner or other interested persons.
RatioOfTheDecision	(v) Section 17(1) read with Section 17(4) confers extraordinary power upon the <ORG> to acquire private property without complying with the mandate of Section 5-A .
RatioOfTheDecision	These provisions can be invoked only when the purpose of acquisition cannot brook the delay of even few weeks  or months.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, before excluding the application of Section 5-A , the concerned authority must be fully satisfied that time of few weeks or months likely to be taken in conducting inquiry under Section 5-A will, in all probability, frustrate the public purpose for which land is proposed to be acquired.
RatioOfTheDecision	(vi) The satisfaction of the <ORG> on the issue of urgency is subjective but is a condition precedent to the exercise of power under Section 17(1) and the same can be challenged on the ground that the purpose for which the private property is sought to be acquired is not a public purpose at all or that the exercise of power is vitiated due to <NAME> fides or that the concerned authorities did not apply mind to the relevant factors and the records.
RatioOfTheDecision	(vii) The exercise of power by the <ORG> under Section 17(1) does not necessarily result in exclusion of Section 5-A of the Act in terms of which any person interested in land can file objection and is entitled to be heard in support of his objecti on.
RatioOfTheDecision	The use of word "may" in sub- section (4) of Section 17 makes it clear that it merely enables the <ORG> to direct that the provisions of Section 5-A would not apply to the cases covered under sub-section (1) or (2) of Section 17 .
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, invoking of Section 17(4) is not a necessary concomitant of the exercise of power under Section 17(1) .
RatioOfTheDecision	(viii) The acquisition of land for residential, commercial, industrial or institutional purposes can be treated as an acquisition for public purposes within the meaning of Section 4 but that, by itself, does not justify the exercise of power by the <ORG> under Section 17(1) and/or 17(4).
RatioOfTheDecision	The Court can take judicial notice of the fact that planning, execution and implementation of the schemes relating to development of residential, commercial, industrial or institutional areas usually take few years.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the private property cannot be acquired for such purpose by invoking the urgency provision contained in Section 17(1) .
RatioOfTheDecision	In any case, exclu sion of the rule of audi alteram partem embodied in Section 5-A (1) and (2) is not at all warranted in such matters.
RatioOfTheDecision	(ix) If land is acquired for the benefit of private persons, the <ORG> should view the invoking of Section 17(1) and/or 17(4) with suspicion and carefully scrutinize the relevant record before adjudicating upon the legality of such acquisition.
RatioOfTheDecision	54.
RatioOfTheDecision	The stage is now set for consideration of the issue whether <ORG> was justified in invoking the urgency provision contained in Section 17(1) and excluding the application of Section 5-A for the acquisition of land for planned industrial development of District Gautam Budh Nagar.
RatioOfTheDecision	A recapitulation of the facts shows that upon receipt of proposal from <ORG>, <ORG> issued directions to the concerned authorities to take action for the acquisition of land in different villages including village Makora.
RatioOfTheDecision	The comments/certificate signed by three officers, which was submitted in the context of <ORG>  Order dated 21.12.2006 was accompanied by several documents including proposal for the acquisition of land, preliminary inquiry report submitted by the <NAME>, <ORG>, copies of khasra khatauni and lay out plan, 10 per cent of the estimated compensation and a host of other documents.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the note dated nil jointly signed by Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Greater Noida, Collector, <NAME> and four other officers/officials, the following factors were cited in justification of invoking the urgency provisions:    (a) The area was notified under <ORG>, 1976 for planned industrial development.
RatioOfTheDecision	(b) If there is any delay in the acquisition of land then the same is likely to be encroached and that will adversely affect the concept of planned industrial development of the district.
RatioOfTheDecision	(c) Large tracts of land of the nearby villages have already been acquired and in respect of some villages, the acquisition proceedings are under progress.
RatioOfTheDecision	(d) The Development A uthority urgently requires land for overall development, i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	construction of roads, laying of sewerages, providing electricity, etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	in the area.
RatioOfTheDecision	(e) The development scheme has been duly approved by <ORG> but the work has been stalled due to non- acquisition of land of village Makora.
RatioOfTheDecision	(f) Numerous reputed and leading industrial units of the country want to invest in the <ORG> of Uttar Pradesh and, therefore, it is extremely urgent and necessary that land is acquired immediately.
RulingByPresentCourt	(g) If land is not made available to the incoming leading and reputed industrial concerns of the country, then they will definitely establish their units in other <ORG>s and if this happens, then it will adversely affect employment opportunities in the <ORG> and will also go against the investment policy of the Government.
RulingByPresentCourt	(h) If written/oral objections are invited from the farmers and are scrutinized, then it will take unprecedented long time and disposal thereof will hamper planned development of the area.
RulingByPresentCourt	(i) As per the provisions of the Act, there shall be at least one year's time gap between publication of the notifications under Sections 4 and 17 and Section 6 .
RatioOfTheDecision	55.
RatioOfTheDecision	In our view, the above noted factors do not furnish legally acceptable justification for the exercise of power by <ORG> under Section 17(1) because the acquisition is primarily meant to cater private interest in the name of industrial development of the district.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is neither the pleaded case of the respondents nor any evidence has been produced before the Court to show that <ORG> and/or agencies/instrumentalities of the <ORG> are intending to establish industrial units on the acquired land either by itself or through its agencies/instrumentalities.
RatioOfTheDecision	The respondents have justified the invoking of urgency provisions by making assertions, which are usually made in such cases by the executive authorities i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	the inflow of funds in the <ORG> in the form of investment by private entrepreneurs and availability of lar ger employment opportunities to the people of the area.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, we do not find any plausible reason to accept this tailor-made justification for approving the impugned action which has resulted in depriving the appellants' of their constitutional right to property.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even if planned industrial development of the district is treated as public purpose within the meaning of Section 4 , there was no urgency which could justify the exercise of power by <ORG> under Section 17(1) and 17(4) .
RatioOfTheDecision	The objective of industrial development of an area cannot be achieved by pressing some buttons on computer screen.
RatioOfTheDecision	It needs lot of deliberations and planning keeping in view various scientific and technical parameters and environmental concerns.
RatioOfTheDecision	The private entrepreneurs, who are desirous of making investment in the <ORG>, take their own time in setting up the industrial units.
RatioOfTheDecision	Usually, <ORG> and its agencies/instrumentalities would give them two to three years' to put up their factories, establishme nts etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, time required for ensuring compliance of the provisions contained in Section 5-A cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be portrayed as delay which will frustrate the purpose of acquisition.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this context, it is apposite to note that the time limit for filing objection under Section 5-A (1) is only 30 days from the date of publication of the notification under Section 4(1) .
RatioOfTheDecision	Of course, in terms of sub-section (2), the Collector is required to give opportunity of hearing to the objector and submit report to the <ORG> after making such further inquiry, as he thinks necessary.
RatioOfTheDecision	This procedure is likely to consume some time, but as has been well said, "Principles of natural justice are to some minds burdensome but this price-a small price indeed-has to be paid if we desire a society governed by the rule of law."
RatioOfTheDecision	56.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this case, <ORG> sent proposal some time in 2006.
RatioOfTheDecision	The authorities up to the level of the Commissioner completed the exercise of survey and preparati on of documents by the end of December, 2006 but it took one year and almost three months to <ORG> to issue notification under Section 4 read with Section 17(1) and 17(4) .
RatioOfTheDecision	If this much time was consumed between the receipt of proposal for the acquisition of land and issue of notification, it is not possible to accept the argument that four to five weeks within which the objections could be filed under sub-section (1) of Section 5-A and the time spent by the Collector in making inquiry under sub-section (2) of Section 5-A would have defeated the object of acquisition.
RatioOfTheDecision	57.
RatioOfTheDecision	The apprehension of the respondents that delay in the acquisition of land will lead to enormous encroachment is totally unfounded.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is beyond the comprehension of any person of ordinary prudence to think that the land owners would encroach their own land with a view to frustrate the concept of planned industrial development of the district.
RatioOfTheDecision	58 The perception of the respondents that there should be atleast one year's time  gap between the issue of notifications under Sections 4 and 6 is clearly misconceived.
RatioOfTheDecision	The time limit of one year specified in clause (ii)) of the proviso to Section 6(1) is the outer limit for issue of declaration.
RatioOfTheDecision	This necessarily means that <ORG> can complete the exercise under Sections 5-A and 6 in a shorter period.
RatioOfTheDecision	59.
RatioOfTheDecision	The only possible conclusion which can be drawn from the above discussion is that there was no real and substantive urgency which could justify invoking of the urgency provision under Section 17(1) and in any case, there was no warrant to exclude the application of Section 5-A which, as mentioned above, represent the statutory embodiment of the rule of audi alteram partem.
RatioOfTheDecision	60.
RatioOfTheDecision	We also find merit in the appellants' plea that the acquisition of their land is vitiated due to violation of the doctrine of equality enshrined in  Article 14 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	A reading of the survey report shows that the committee constituted by <ORG> had recommended release  of land measuring 18.9725 hectares.
RatioOfTheDecision	Many parcels of land were released from acquisition because the land owners had already raised constructions and were using the same as dwelling units.
Fact	A large chunk of land measuring 4.3840 hectares was not acquired apparently because the same belong to an ex-member of the legislative assembly.
Fact	The appellants had also raised constructions on their land and were using the same for residential and agricultural purposes.
Fact	Why their land was not left out from acquisition has not been explained in the counter affidavit filed by the respondents.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> should have treated this as sufficient for recording a finding that the respondents had adopted the policy of pick and choose in acquiring some parcels of land and this amounted to violation of Article 14 of the Constitution.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed it has not been pleaded by the respondents that the appellants cannot invoke the doctrine of equality because the other parcels of land were illegally left out from acquisition.
RatioOfTheDecision	61.
RatioOfTheDecision	The argume nt of the learned senior counsel for the respondents that the <ORG> may not annul the impugned acquisition because land of other villages had already been acquired and other land owners of village Makora have not come forward to challenge the acquisition of their land cannot be entertained and the <ORG> cannot refuse to protect the legal and constitutional rights of the appellants' merely because the others have not come forward to challenge the illegitimate exercise of power by <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is quite possible that others may have, due to sheer poverty, ignorance and similar handicaps not been able to avail legal remedies for protection of their rights, but that cannot be made basis to deny what is due to the appellants.
RatioOfTheDecision	62.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result, the appeal is allowed.
RulingByPresentCourt	The impugned order is set aside and the writ petition filed by the appellants is allowed.
Argument	Respondent No.1 is directed to pay cost of Rs.
Argument	5,00,000/- to the appellants for forcing unwarranted litigation on them.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is, however, made clear th at the respondents shall be free to proceed from the stage of Section 4 notification and take appropriate action after complying with Section 5-A(1) and (2) of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is needless to say if the appellants' feel aggrieved by the fresh exercise undertaken by <ORG> then they shall be free to avail appropriate legal remedy.
RulingByLowerCourt	.............................J.
RulingByLowerCourt	[G.S.
RulingByLowerCourt	Singhvi] ..............................J.
RulingByLowerCourt	[<NAME>] New Delhi;  April 15, 2011.
