Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	These four references have been submitted by the <ORG> in respect of the same assessee raising identical issues arising out of the same facts relating to asst.
Fact	yrs.
Fact	1967-68, 1968-69, 1969-70 and 1970-71.
Fact	2.
Fact	The relevant facts appearing from the statement of the case in IT Ref.
Fact	No.
Fact	336 of 1982 are that the assessee had entered into an agreement with <NAME> w.e.f.
Fact	1st Jan., 1956 onwards and was getting assistance in the manufacture of wide range of products listed in the agreement as well as vide supplementary agreement from time to time.
Fact	Tinopal was one such product the assessee was licensed to manufacture under the provisions of this agreement.
Fact	In the manufacture of Tinopal cyanuric chloride is one of the raw materials and was being consumed in large quantities.
Fact	Until the assessee decided to manufacture the said raw material by himself, the same was bought from the market.
Fact	The assessee entered in another supplementary agreement on 14th July, 1965 for manufacturing  cyanuric chloride.
Fact	Under this agreement the assessee had to pay certain amounts in five equal instalments to <ORG> for acquiring technical know<ORG>how.
Fact	The first instalment was payable on the commission of the cyanuric plant on 31st March, 1966.
Fact	The second instalment was payable in the financial year 1966<ORG>67 and each subsequent instalment was payable in the following financial years.
Fact	Towards payment of these instalments in each year, which was paid in foreign currency and its rupee value was claimed as a deduction for the asst.
Fact	yr. 1967<ORG>68, and subsequent assessment years.
Fact	The first payment in respect of which was made in financial year 1966<ORG>67.
Fact	The rupee value of these instalments was Rs.
Fact	1,51,500.
Fact	The assessee claimed deduction thereof as business expenditure of manufacturing cyanuric chloride commencing from financial year 1966<ORG>67 as a revenue expenditure.
Fact	The <ORG> rejected the contention of the assessee by taking the view that because the payments were made for getting sub<ORG>licence to manufacture cyanuri c chloride for a period not less than 10 years, it could not be claimed as a revenue expenditure.
RulingByLowerCourt	The CIT(A) held that the payment in question represented normal revenue expenditure which should have been allowed as a deduction by the <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> confirmed the order.
RulingByLowerCourt	It held that the agreement dt.
RulingByLowerCourt	14th July, 1965 was entered into for manufacture of raw material for the purpose of production of Tinopal.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is also held that on termination of agreement there would be no useful knowledge left which would help the assessee in manufacturing cyanuric chloride.
RulingByLowerCourt	It also noticed that under clause 22 of agreement dt.
Fact	1st Jan., 1956 the assessee had to refrain from using any of the <ORG>'s patents.
Fact	3.
Fact	In the first instance the <ORG> having rejected the application under s. 256(1) of the IT Act submitted the question of law arising out of its order, the <ORG> applied under s. 256(2) before this Court and as per the direction contained in the order dt.
Fact	22nd Sept., 1981 in IT Ref.
RatioOfTheDecision	No.
Fact	233 of 1981 the following  question of law has been referred to this <ORG> for its opinion :  "Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the <ORG> has been right in law in holding that the amount of Rs.
Fact	1,51,500 being the instalment payable by the assessee to <NAME> under the agreement dt.
Fact	14th July, 1965 is allowable as revenue expenditure ?"
Fact	For subsequent years also the same question has been referred.
Fact	However, the amount claimed in each case is different.
Fact	4.
Fact	We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.
Fact	5.
Fact	<NAME>, learned counsel appearing for the applicant-Revenue, contended that under the agreement dt.
Fact	14th July, 1965, the assessee was granted sub-licence which goes to show that <NAME> with whom the assessee had collaboration agreement w.e.f.
Fact	1st Jan., 1956 had acquired the right to manufacture in India cyanuric chloride under the licence from <ORG> ("<ORG>" for brevity) under or according to <ORG>'s patents processes, know-how an d improvements under a supplemental agreement dt.
Fact	22nd April, 1963.
Fact	Likewise, <ORG> has also obtained licence from a German company "<ORG>" to manufacture in India cyanuric chloride under or according to <ORG>'s patents, processes, know-how and improvements.
Fact	Under this right to manufacture the said product in India from the said two companies.
Fact	<ORG> had a right to sub-licence <ORG>'s associates in India for manufacture of the said products.
Fact	In exercise of that right <ORG> had entered into the agreement with the assessee on 14th July, 1965.
Fact	The <ORG> sub-licensed the assessee to manufacture cyanuric chloride under <ORG> as well as <ORG>'s patents processes, know-how and improvements.
Fact	In consideration of the said sub-licence permitting the assessee to manufacture cyanuric chloride under the said two processes, the assessee was to pay a fee of 50,000 US $ in five equal annual instalments of 10,000 US $ each to <ORG>.
Fact	On these precincts <NAME>, learned advocate, contends that the assessee has ac quired an advantage or benefit of enduring nature.
Fact	Under the said agreement by which cyanuric chloride was required to be manufactured by the assessee.
Fact	Once technical know-how disclosed to the assessee, permanently with the assessee and even after the expiry of the agreement the knowledge of the process of manufacturing cyanuric chloride whether by <ORG> or by <NAME> will not be obliterated.
Fact	Even on returning of the designs, etc.
Argument	The plant for manufacturing cyanuric chloride would not be discontinued even after the expiry of the period, but continue to manufacture the same under the process already made known to the assessee, inasmuch as there was no stipulation under the agreement either principal or supplementary that on termination of the agreement, the assessee would discontinue the manufacture of cyanuric chloride.
Argument	6.
Argument	On the other hand it was contended by the learned counsel for the assessee <NAME> that the technical know-how acquired under the said agreement was operational cost for the running  the business and the amount paid to the collaborator of technical know-how was only paid for the use of the process developed by <NAME> or <NAME> for manufacturing cyanuric chloride in India and acquisition of right to use is distinct from acquisition to the right itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	Expenditure for regularly operating the business cannot be considered to be the capital expenditure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Mere right to use technical know-how without having proprietary right therein cannot be considered capital in the hands of the assessee.
Precedent	He relied on the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1990557> .
Precedent	(1987) 165 ITR 51 (SC).
Argument	7.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have given careful consideration to the rival contentions.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under s. 37 of the IT Act, 1961 all expenditure laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business or profession are to be allowed as deduction while computing the income provided the same are not in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee, apart from the condition that the same may not be governed  by any other express provision of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case the only question that arises for consideration is other condition being satisfied that the expenses are wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business and are not governed by any other express provision, whether the expenses claimed are of capital nature.
RatioOfTheDecision	8.
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression "capital expenditure" has not been defined in the statute, nor the words in the 'nature of capital expenditure' has been subject to any definition clause.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the expression has to be construed in ordinary business term.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG>, in the course of determining this question have evolved various tests to determine as to when any expenditure can be said to be a capital and when a particular expenditure can be said to be of revenue nature.
RatioOfTheDecision	9.
RatioOfTheDecision	In some cases it has been held that expenditure which brings into existence asset or advantage of enduring benefit is to be considered as capital expenditure.
RatioOfTheDecision	A disbursement, when it is referable to fixed capital or capital ass et is treated as capital expenditure, but when it relates to circulating capital or stock in trade it is treated as revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	Yet another test that has been applied is that where an expenditure relates to the framework of the assessee's business, it is to be treated as capital as opposed to revenue when it is related to running of the business.
RatioOfTheDecision	Initial expenditure for commencement of a business is ordinarily considered a capital outlay.
RatioOfTheDecision	So also money spent on acquiring goodwill has been held to be capital outlay.
RatioOfTheDecision	But no one test is of universal application.
Precedent	<ORG> in <CITATION_1805387> (1989) 177 ITR 377 (SC) quoted with approval following observation of Lord <NAME> in <ORG> vs. Commr.
Precedent	of Taxation of the Commonwealth of Australia (1966) AC 224 :  "The solution to the problem is not to be found by any rigid test or description.
Precedent	It has to be derived from many aspects of the whole set of circumstances some of which may point in one direction and some in the other.
Precedent	One consideration may point  so clearly that it dominates other and vague indications in the contrary directions.
Precedent	It is a common sense appreciation of all the guiding factors which must provide the ultimate answer."
Precedent	10.
Precedent	Test which was laid by Viscount Cave L. C. in the case of <ORG> (1925) 10 Tax Cases 155.
Precedent	"When an expenditure is made not only once and for all, but with a view to bringing into existence an asset or an advantage for the enduring benefit of trade.
Precedent	I think that there is good reason (in the absence of special circumstances leading to an opposite conclusion) for treating such expenditure attributable not to revenue but to capital."
Precedent	11.
Precedent	The opinion was quoted with approval by <ORG> in <CITATION_888361> (1951) 20 ITR 475 (SC) and in catena of cases thereafter.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	Lord <NAME> in <ORG> vs. <NAME> (1910) Tax Cases 529 opined that the capital expenditure is a thing which is going to be spent once and for all income expenditure is a thing which is goi ng to be recur every year.
Precedent	In the same case Lord <NAME> in his concurring opinion said :  "It is also not essential that the word "asset" be confined to something material."
RatioOfTheDecision	What is meant by expression 'once and for all' ?
RatioOfTheDecision	However, the test is as was explained in <CITATION_923991> (1955) 27 ITR 34 (SC) the expression "once and for all" in Viscount Cave's test does not mean that the payment should be made in a single sum and at one time.
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression "once and for all" is used to denote an expenditure which is made once and for all for procuring an enduring benefit to the business as distinct from recurring expenditure in the nature of operational expenses.
Precedent	It was said :  "If the expenditure is made for acquiring or bringing into existence an asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business, it is properly attributable to capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure.
Precedent	If on the other hand, it is made not for the purpose of bringing into existence any such asset or advantage for but for ru nning the business or working it with a view to produce the profit, it is a revenue expenditure.
Precedent	The aim and object of expenditure would determine the character of expenditure whether it is a capital expenditure or a revenue expenditure."
Precedent	13.
Precedent	Another test evolved was to find out as to whether the expenses incurred are part of the working expenses or the expenditure laid out as part of the process of profit earning.
Precedent	In other words, it is capital outlay if such expenditure is necessary for the acquisition of property or of rights of a permanent character, the possession of which is a condition of carrying on its trade at all.
Precedent	This was said by the Lord <NAME> in <ORG> vs. IRC (1924) 8 Tax Cases 671.
Precedent	"Is it part of the company's working expenses ?
Precedent	Is it expenditure laid out as part of the process of profit making ?
Precedent	Or on the other hand is it a capital outlay; is it expenditure necessary for the acquisition of property or of rights of a permanent character, the possession of which  is a condition of carrying on its trade at all ?"
Precedent	14.
Precedent	The test was quoted with approval by <ORG> in <CITATION_1671648> (1980) 124 ITR 1 (SC).
Precedent	Further principle which their Lordships of <ORG> in <ORG> (supra) quoted with approval from the case of <ORG> vs. <ORG> 72 CLR 634 is that - "What is an outgoing of capital and what is an outgoing on account of revenue depends on what the expenditure is calculated to effect from a practical and business point of view rather than upon the juristic classification of the legal rights, if any secured, employed or exhausted in the process."
Precedent	15.
Precedent	<ORG> said that "when dealing with cases of this kind where the question is whether expenditure incurred by an assessee is capital or revenue expenditure, the question must be viewed in the larger context of business necessity or expediency.
Precedent	If the outgoing expenditure is so related to the carrying on or the conduct of the business that  it may be regarded as an integral part of profit earning process and not the acquisition of asset or right of a permanent character, the possession of which is a condition of carrying on business, the expenditure may be regarded as revenue expenditure."
Precedent	16.
Precedent	Another test which was laid out that the advantage which is secured must be in the capital field that the expenditure would be disallowed.
Precedent	If the advantage consists merely in facilitating the assessee's trading operations or enabling the management and conduct of the assessee's business to be carried on more efficiently or more profitably by leaving the fixed capital untouched, the expenditure would be on revenue account even though the advantage may endure for an indefinite future.
Precedent	That was the view expressed by <ORG> in IRC vs. Carron Co. (1968) 45 Tax Cases 18 (HL) and was approved and applied by <ORG> in <CITATION_1671648> (supra).
Precedent	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	This test invariably lead to another inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is meant by enduring or advantage of per manent nature.
RatioOfTheDecision	The words "permanent" and "enduring" are not the words of art, but are only relative terms.
RatioOfTheDecision	They are not synonymous.
RatioOfTheDecision	What is the degree of durability of permanence always depends upon the facts of each case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another test which has been applied while considering the nature of expenses is that if it is made for initiation of business or extension of business or substantial replacement of equipment.
RatioOfTheDecision	The outlay is deemed to be the capital.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is so because initial expenditure is incurred not for earning profit, but for setting it in motion.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, it is now well settled that no one test dealt with in various cases distinguishing between the capital and revenue expenditure is of permanent or conclusive nature or of universal application.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	Here it will be appropriate to notice another decision of <ORG>.
Precedent	<CITATION_594383> .
Precedent	(1968) 69 ITR 692 (SC), the assessee was Indian subsidiary of <ORG>, a Swiss company.
Precedent	The pharmaceutical section of <ORG> in India was taken over by  the assessee in 1948.
Argument	Under an agreement, <ORG> undertook to deliver to the assessee all processes, formulae, scientific data, working rules and prescriptions pertaining to the manufacture or processing products discovered and developed in <ORG>'s laboratories and to forward to the assessee as far as possible all scientific and bibliographic information, pamphlets or drafts which might be useful to introduce the licensed preparation and to promote their sale in India, it granted to the assessee full and sole rights and licence under patent listed in the agreement to make use of the same and also a licence to use certain specified trade marks in the territory subject to any existing licence to third parties held at the date of the agreement or <ORG> may grant to third party thereafter.
Argument	In consideration of that right to receive scientific and technical assistance, payments were to be made to <ORG> Repelling the <ORG>'s contention that the contribution made to t he <ORG> was not entitled to deduction under s. 10(2)(xv) because expenses were capital in nature, the <ORG> said :  "The assessee did not under the agreement become entitled exclusively even for the period of the agreement, to the patents and trade marks of the <ORG>; it had merely access to the technical knowledge and experience in the pharmaceutical field which the <ORG> commanded.
Argument	The assessee was on that account mere licensee for a limited period of the technical knowledge of the <ORG> with the right to use the patents and trade marks of that company.
Argument	The assessee acquired under the agreement merely the right to draw, for the purpose of carrying on its business as a manufacturer and dealer of pharmaceutical products, upon the technical knowledge of the <ORG> for a limited period; by making that technical knowledge available the <ORG> did not part with any asset of its business, nor did the assessee acquire any asset or advantage of an enduring nature for th e benefit of its business."
Argument	19.
Argument	<CITATION_1990557> .
Argument	(supra) lump sum payment was made to a distributor chosen by the foreign collaborator as a condition of the agreement under which the assessee became entitled to the benefit of using trade marks and specialised process of the collaborator.
Argument	The <ORG> sought to disallow the said expenses treating it to be the capital in nature.
Argument	The Court said applying tests that aim and object for incurring expenses is one of the guiding factors and as the expenses in the case was for the acquisition of the know-how as it was a condition on which the collaboration agreed to part with the technical knowledge to the assessee, it was treated to be the revenue expenditure on commercial principle.
Precedent	20.
Fact	<CITATION_1805387> (supra), the assessee-company was engaged in manufacture of antibiotics and pharmaceuticals.
Fact	It was granted licence for manufacture of penicillin.
Fact	Until 1963 it has already made substantial investment of over Rs.
Argument	66 lakhs for setting up plants, etc., for produc tion of penicillin.
Argument	Initially, the appellant was able to achieve only moderate yield.
Argument	With a view to increasing the yield the appellant negotiated with <ORG>, a reputed Japanese enterprise whereunder in consideration for once for all payment of 50,000 US $ it agreed to supply the <ORG> pilot plant, technical information, know-how and written description of <ORG>'s process for fermentation of penicillin with a flow sheet of the process on pilot plant and to arrange for the training of appellant's representatives in various plants in Japan at <ORG>'s expenditure and advise the <ORG> in large scale manufacture for a period of 2 years.
Argument	The <ORG> was to get technical know-how confidentially and secretly and not to seek any patent for the processes.
Argument	Assessee's claim for deduction of the sum paid to the Japanese company as revenue expenditure was disallowed by the <ORG> holding that the expenses were capital in nature.
Argument	For the purpose of setting up of new plant and new process and that the for compl ete replacement of the business inasmuch as the new process and new establishment of plant was to be put up in place of old process and old plant.
Fact	<ORG> also rejected the assessee's claim.
Fact	Reversing the decision of <ORG>, <ORG> observed that there was no material before the Tribunal to come to the finding that the appellant had obtained under the agreement a completely new plant with a completely new process and completely new technical know-how.
Fact	The business of the appellant was to manufacture penicillin.
Fact	Even after the agreement the product continued to be penicillin.
Fact	There was no material before the Tribunal that the area of improvisation was not part of the existing business.
Fact	21.
Fact	There was no material to hold that it amounted to a new or fresh venture.
Fact	What was stipulated was improvement of operation of existing business and its efficiency and profitability not removed from the area of day to day business of the appellants' established enterprise.
Fact	The financial outlay un der the agreement for the better conduct and improvement of the existing business and as revenue in nature and was allowable deduction in computing the business profit of the appellant.
Precedent	22.
Precedent	In coming to this conclusion the <ORG> also noticed the principles which should govern while deciding such issues by the <ORG>s.
Precedent	23.
RatioOfTheDecision	The most important aspects relevant for the present purpose which can be culled out from above discussion is that where expenses are incurred in areas which supplement the existing business and is not a fresh or new venture and agreement of acquiring technical know-how pertain to product already in the line of the established business which was intended to improve the operations of the existing business, its efficiency and profitability from the area of day to day business of the appellant's established enterprise's expenses be treated as revenue and not capital.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, if the technical know-how is acquired for the purpose of establishing altogether a new or fresh venture, <ORG> hing of a new enterprise, the same expenditure may be treated as capital and not revenue.
RatioOfTheDecision	In such cases the test of enduring benefit might break.
RatioOfTheDecision	That to say the argument that knowledge having become once the part of knowledge bank of the acquirer, cannot be taken back in a sense and will always remain with the assessee and is enduring.
Fact	But looking to the business realities, namely, the purpose of which knowledge has been enduring knowledge acquired becomes determining true character of the expenditure.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	In view of the aforesaid, looking to the facts of the present case the mere fact that the knowledge to the Musashino, the process of manufacturing cyanuric chloride would become permanent part of the assessee's knowledge bank and will remain with the assessee even after expiry of the agreement and will not be determinative of the character of the expenditure.
Precedent	25.
Fact	The principal agreement with the <ORG> was to last for 20 years commencing from 1st Jan., 1956.
Fact	The supplementary agreements in furtherance of  the principal agreement were co-terminus with the principal agreement.
Fact	In fact, the agreement was terminated even before the expiry of the period of the agreement.
Fact	Under the principal agreement (clause 14) the assessee was though free to purchase raw materials and intermediaries from any source, but the purchase of products manufactured by <ORG> or from those who produce and manufacture raw material and intermediaries under the <ORG> patent, there was a prohibition to purchase such raw material from any source manufacturing the intermediary products in violation of <ORG> patent.
Fact	From the agreement under which the assessee was licensed to manufacture in India cyanuric chloride as per the process developed by <NAME> or <ORG>, <ORG> was the person authorised under respective patent orders to manufacture that product in India.
Fact	It was also permissible for <ORG> to sub-licence its associates in India for the manufacture of the said product in India.
Fact	However, <ORG> himself was not the proprietor of the patents,  nor it could transfer proprietary rights in such patents to any of his associates in India.
Fact	From this it is apparent that the period for which the agreement was to operate was barely 11 years which in fact lasted less than that.
Fact	The assessee was purchasing raw materials, namely, cyanuric chloride from the market.
Fact	However, the same was not being produced under a licence from <ORG>.
Fact	Once <ORG> having licensed to manufacture cyanuric chloride which was through Musashino or Degussa process in India had decided to start manufacturing that product either by himself or through his associates, the assessee was under obligation to purchase that raw material required for its principal product - Tinopal from such manufacturer only under clause 14 of the principal agreement.
Fact	It is in the light of these circumstances the case has to be examined.
Fact	The question will be whether such knowledge was for establishing the business or for running the business.
Precedent	In the former it shall be capital, in the latter it is revenue.
Precedent	26.
Fact	Fr om the statement of the case, we find that Tinopal was one of the products which was manufactured by the assessee under the provisions of the principal agreement.
Fact	Cyanuric chloride was one of the raw materials used in the manufacture of Tinopal which was consumed in large quantities.
Fact	The object of the assessee undertaking manufacture of cyanuric acid was stated to be manufacturing raw materials for the purpose of production of Tinopal.
Fact	If, therefore, applying the test laid down in <ORG> case (supra), which in our opinion does apply to the facts of the present case, the assessee's existing business was the business of manufacturing Tinopal, the product which the assessee intended to manufacture, namely, cyanuric chloride was one of the raw materials which until it started manufacturing was being purchased in large quantities from the market, the purpose of production of cyanuric chloride was found by the <ORG> to be the manufacture of raw material or production of Tinopal, that is to say, the pu rpose was in the area of existing business of the assessee for carrying on the existing business with more profitability and was not for the purposes of entering into a new adventure for operating in a new area of business.
Fact	If that be so, the expenses incurred for acquiring the technical know-how to manufacture raw material necessary for the principal product of the assessee to cut down the cost of producing raw materials from the market was the operational cost of the existing business incurred for the purpose of cutting down the day to day cost of the business and not for the purpose of installing a new business, the expenses had to be held to be revenue in nature and not capital though we observe that the <ORG> was not correct in observing that there would be no useful knowledge left which would help the assessee in manufacturing cyanuric chloride after the agreement is concluded.
Fact	As a result of operation of clause 22 which required the assessee to return <ORG> all documents put at the assessee's d isposal and relating to manufacturing of engineering plants, designs, etc., in respect of the patents and the assessee was refrained from using <ORG> patents and trade marks which knowledge was acquired in respect of patents vesting in a third party.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, the knowledge bank of the assessee and production is already in process, according to that method, ordinarily it would not come to an end with the expiry of the agreement and would remain with the assessee.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, as we observe in the present case particularly, in the matter of acquisition of the technical know-how it is of great importance that for what purpose technical know-how was acquired.
Argument	27.
Argument	In this connection concerning expenses incurred for acquiring the right to acquire raw material for the purpose of running business the matter was examined by their Lordships of <ORG> in <CITATION_1671648> (supra); by way of illustration it is said :  "Take a case where acquisition of raw material is regulated by quota system and in order to obtain  more raw material the assessee purchases the quota right of another.
Argument	Now, it is obvious that by purchase of such quota right, the assessee would be able to acquire more raw material and that would increase the profitability of his profit making apparatus, but the amount paid for purchase of such quota right would indubitably be revenue expenditure, since it is incurred for acquiring raw material and is part of the operating cost."
Argument	The principle fully applies to the facts found by the <ORG> in the present case, according to which the assessee had entered into an agreement on 14th July, 1965 for manufacturing raw material for the purpose of production of Tinopal.
Argument	28.
Argument	Even applying the test of "acquisition of assets" it can be said that under the agreement the assessee did not acquire the capital asset itself, namely, the technical know-how as a proprietor thereof.
Argument	What it acquired under the agreement on 14th July, 1965 was only the right to use technical knowledge available with <ORG> or <ORG>.
Argument	It ha d right only to use that knowledge for the purpose of manufacturing cyanuric chloride within India.
Argument	Therefore, what the assessee has acquired was not the capital asset, but only the access to the knowledge to the method.
RatioOfTheDecision	The finding that said two companies had developed process of manufacturing cyanuric chloride does not mean that these were only two methods known for manufacturing cyanuric chloride and the assessee could not at all have been able to commence production, but for acquisition of technical know-how from the said two concerns.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, mere right of use of the technical knowledge of others has to be distinguished from the acquisition of right as proprietor to the knowledge in the sense that no one else could use that knowledge except with the permission or at the wish of the owner.
RatioOfTheDecision	A patent holder is the proprietor or the owner of the knowledge so long as that right remains with the proprietor and his permission is required by the users thereof, when such owner permits to use that knowledge und er that name with condition of confidentiality/secrecy, what is transferred is not the capital asset, but only the right to use.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as knowledge of such process is concerned that always remains with the acquirer and can never be recalled back.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it cannot be said that by such acquisition of knowledge the assessee has acquired any capital asset.
RatioOfTheDecision	So far as question as to whether it amounts to acquisition of advantage/benefit of enduring nature is concerned as we have already discussed, it depends upon the object with which such advantage or benefit has been acquired.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the advantage or benefit had been acquired to facilitate running of the existing business, it should be treated as the expenditure on revenue account.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the advantage or benefit acquired for establishing a fresh venture it may be treated as part of expenditure on capital account.
RatioOfTheDecision	As in the present case the finding of the <ORG> reveals that the advantage was acquired for the purpose of manufacturing raw material for production of Tinopa l which was the existing business of the assessee, we have no hesitation in coming to conclusion that the expenditure incurred was rightfully held to be on revenue account.
Precedent	29.
Precedent	Accordingly we answer the question referred to us in affirmative in all the four cases in favour of the assessee and against the <ORG>.
RulingByPresentCourt	There shall be no order as to costs.
