Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	In this case the plaintiff, as purchaser of the equity of redemption, sued to redeem and recover possession of certain thikans originally mortgaged with possession by the plaintiff's vendors to the ancestors of defendants 2-6, who, on 12th April, 1893, had by Exhibit 55 transferred their rights to defendants 7--10, for Rs.
Fact	1,275.
Fact	2.
Fact	The defendants contended that plaintiff could not recover possession without redeeming three bonds (Exhibits 57, 58 and 59) as well as the original mortgage of 1837 (Exhibit 56).
Fact	The <ORG> of first instance and the lower <ORG> held that this contention was correct, but while the <ORG> first mentioned limited the interest payable by applying the rule of damdupat the lower <ORG> decided that full interest on the three bonds was payable by plaintiff at the rates in those bonds specified.
Fact	Exhibit 55, the registered instrument whereby defendants 2-6 transferred their rights to defendants 7--10, recited that the property in question was held i n mortgage from one <NAME> under the mortgage bond of 1837 (Exhibit 56), and added that <NAME>'s direct heirs had received more moneys from the original mortgagee and passed separate documents on stamped paper, and that if accounts were taken of the whole the amount would be very large, but that Ra, 1,275 had been accepted by the original mortgagees from defendants 7--10 and that in consideration of that sum all the mortgaged rights were accordingly sold to defendants 7--10.
Fact	3.
Fact	The original mortgage deed of 1837 (Exhibit 56) was for Ra.
Fact	645-12-3, and possession was given thereunder to tine mortgagees, profits being taken by them in lieu of interest.
Fact	This mortgage deed (Exhibit 56) is stated by the lower <ORG> to be admitted by all parties as the mortgage referred to in the document (Exhibit 55) which transferred the original mortagee's rights to defendants 7--10.
Fact	4.
Fact	The later documents (Exhibits 57, 58 and 59) were not specifically described in the defendant's assignment.
Fact	They were not handed ov er by the original mortgagees to the defendants 7--10 either at date of Exhibit, 55 or at any time before suit; nor were they specifically described in the written statements put in for the defence.
Fact	The written statement of defendant 2 refers only to a further charge on the mortgaged property made by the son of the original mortgagor, while defendants 7--10 in their joint written statement alleged that the original mortgagor's sons and daughters had passed other money bonds to <NAME>, the original mortgagee.
Fact	These s Exhibits 57 to 59 were not produced by defendants 7--10, but by the defendants 2-6.
Fact	5.
Fact	Exhibit 57 purports to have been executed in March, 1864, by one <NAME>, son of the original mortgagor, for Rs.
Fact	57-8-0.
Fact	It is unregistered.
Fact	It recites the fact that the mortgage of 1837 for Rs.
Fact	645-12-3 (Exhibit 56) had been executed by the obligor's <NAME> and purports to confirm it by an undertaking to pay the amount thereof together with the sum of Rs.
Fact	57-8 0, which is stated to have been advanced on the sam e security, and with interest on the Rs.
Fact	57-8-0 at 12 per cent.
Fact	per annum.
Fact	Exhibit 58 purports to have been executed by the said <NAME> for Rs.
Fact	95 "advanced on the same security " in February, 1865, contains recitals and undertakings similar to those in Exhibit 57 with regard to the mortgage of 1887, and adds, "I will not interfere with the land for twenty-five years."
Fact	6.
Fact	Exhibit 59 purports to have been executed in March, 1866, by one <NAME>, the daughter-in-law of the original mortgagor, for Rs.
Fact	90 as a charge on the same land, bearing interest at Rs.
Fact	18 per cent, and to refer to and confirm Exhibits 56 and 58.
Fact	7.
Fact	All these three documents purporting to be more than thirty years old, the question arose whether they were admissible as produced from proper custody.
Fact	8.
Fact	For the appellants it is contended that these Exhibits 57 to 59 required more proof than had been adduced, and could not be accepted merely on the ground of their alleged antiquity and of their production by defendants 2--6; that Sectio n 90 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, was therefore inapplicable to them, and that under the ruling in <CITATION_1510199> (1880) 6 Cal.
Fact	209 Exhibit 59 at least required proof of execution by the person <NAME>, whose mark alone purports to have been affixed thereto, and further that all the three documents, as purporting to extend the interests created by Exhibit 56, were compulsorily registrable and inadmissible for want of registration, and in any case were ineffectual by reason of Section 50 of the Registration Act, 1877, as against the registered deed under which the plaintiff claims, and that plaintiff as a bona Me purchaser without notice could not be affected thereby.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	In support of the first of these contentions, viz., that the documents were not sufficiently proved by evidence of production from proper custody, the rulings in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1872) 18 Cal.
Precedent	W.R. 435 and <NAME> v. <NAME> (1873) 21 Cal.
Precedent	W.R. 20 were cited for the appellants.
Precedent	The first  of these decisions was passed only a few days after the present Evidence Act of 1872 came into force, makes no reference to that enactment and refers to the rule relating to ancient documents as one of English Law to be applied subject to conditions and precautions which are suggested in English text books, such as Pitt Taylor and <NAME>, and which have not boon embodied in Section 90 of the modern Indian Evidence Act .
Precedent	The later ruling practically accepts as Sufficient the test required by Section 90 of the Indian Evidence Act, which, however, is, not there cited.
Precedent	10.
Precedent	Now, the section itself admits a presumption of the genuineness of documents purporting to be thirty years old, if produced from custody proved to have had a legitimate origin or an origin the legitimacy of which the circumstances of the case render probable (vide explanation 2 to Section 90 ).
Precedent	It is not necessary that the document should be found in the best and most proper place of deposit Bishop of Meath v. <NAME> of Winchester (1836) 3  Bing.
Precedent	N.C. 183 p.p.
Precedent	201, 202, and the section read with the explanation attached thereto seems be insist only on a satisfactory account of the origin of the custody and not on the history of its continuance.
RatioOfTheDecision	Possibly the origin of the custody was alone regarded as material, because it is intelligible that ancient documents may be overlooked and left undisturbed notwithstanding a transfer of old, or creation of new, interests.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present instance, it is true, Exhibits 57,58 and 59 ware not mere links in the chain of title, but the basis of rights alleged to have been transferred, and it might have been expected that they would have been handed over at the transfer of the mortgagee's rights.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the circumstance that they were, not so handed over affects rather the history of the subsequent transactions than the probabilities as to the origin of the custody.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question of proper custody is no doubt one which would in England be left to the Judge and not be the jury: <NAME> on Evidence, Section 22 .
RatioOfTheDecision	But this does not prevent the question from being one entirely dependent upon findings of fact, for, as stated by <NAME> (p. 37) "the question of admissibility must be exclusively decided by the Judge, however complicated the circumstances may be, and though it may be necessary to weigh the conflicting testimony of numerous witnesses in order to arrive at a just conclusion."
RatioOfTheDecision	Whether it were credible or not that the documents in question were originally left in the custody of the mortgagee in whose favour they were executed appears to me to be as much a question of fact as the question whether they were executed by the alleged obligors or not and even if it were a question of law, it would, I think, be impossible to hold that the origin of the mortgagees' custody was not both legitimate and probable.
Precedent	The further question whether the alleged subsequent history of those documents was sufficient to throw suspicion on their authenticity and rebut any presumption arising under Section 90 was, I think, undoubte dly one of fact with which it is impossible to interfere on second appeal regard being had to the decision of <ORG> in Durga Chowdhrani v. <NAME> (1890) 18 Cal.
Precedent	23.
RatioOfTheDecision	In these circumstances, I think, there is no alternative but to accept the finding of the lower <ORG> that these Exhibits 57 to 59 were produced from custody which is proper within the meaning of Section 90 of the Evidence Act, and that they were duly executed by the persons by whom they purport to have been executed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The objection that Exhibit 59 bears only the mark of the alleged obligor appears to have no weight in face of the concluding words of the section, for it is not contended that the document does not purport to have been executed by the person whose mark it purports to bear, and this, in the case of a document falling under Section 90 , is sufficient, although had it been necessary to prove execution, it would have been necessary to prove the identity of the executing party.
RatioOfTheDecision	11.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question wheth er <NAME>, who purports to have executed Exhibit 59, was competent to create a charge upon the property to be affected thereby, does not appear to have been specifically raised in the memorandum of this appeal or in the lower <ORG> or even in the Court of first instance, and should not 1 think, be entertained now.
Argument	12.
Argument	Next it is contended that none of the documents in question are admissible, as they were all compulsorily registrable.
Argument	13.
Argument	So far as Exhibit 57 is concerned this contention must necessarily fail, inasmuch as it purports to have been executed in March, 1864, and the Registration Act XVI of 1864 did not come into operation in this Presidency (vide Section 71 ) until 1st January, 1865.
Argument	14.
Argument	The other two documents, Exhibits 58 and 59, being respectively dated February, 1865, and March, 1866, both come within the operation of Act XVI of 1864 and, it is urged, are both compulsorily registrable under Section 13 thereof, as though the consideration appearing on the face of the documents is i n each case under Rs.
Fact	100, each of them undertakes liability for the previous deed and provides for the redemption of that mortgage for Rs.
Precedent	645.
Precedent	In this connection appellants rely on the unpublished case of <CITATION_177177597> (1883) P.J.
Fact	p. 34 which distinguishes the case of an agreement undertaking a liability for a mortgage not otherwise binding, from the case of a mere recital or declaration of a fact such as in <NAME> et al.
Fact	v. <NAME> (1881) 5 Bom.
Fact	232 wag held not to render registration necessary.
Argument	The case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1883) P.J.
Argument	p. 95 was further relied on as showing that Exhibit 58, which postpones the date at which the original mortgage of 1837 should be redeemable, limited the equity of redemption under that mortgage, and therefore required to be registered, and being unregistered could not affect the equity of redemption.
Argument	As to the first of these cases <NAME> v. <NAME>, it is to be noted that the mortgages therein related to lan ds that were wakf and were not effected for musjid repairs, so that "it was admitted, under these circumstances, the mortgages could not be supported against the religious endowments."
Argument	And it was for this reason that it was sought to charge the sons of the original mortgagor by the agreement entered into by them subsequently in an unregistered writing to pay off the mortgages, and it was also endeavoured to use that agreement as an estoppel which would prevent the plaintiffs from pleading that they were not bound by the first mortgage.
Argument	It was because the plaintiffs were not, ex concessis, bound by the first mortgage, as it could not be supported against the religious endowment, that it was necessary to prove the agreement against them, and for this purpose it was inadmissible in evidence inasmuch as it was not registered.
Argument	But in the present instance there is no plea that the plaintiff is not bound by the first mortgage.
Argument	He sues to redeem it and has never disputed liability to pay it off.
Argument	The subsequent docume nts, Exhibits 58 and 59, were not required as evidence to prove that liability and are not inadmissible to establish the liability for the sums respectively secured by them, viz., Rs.
Argument	95 and Rs.
Argument	90.
Argument	They do not, therefore impose or create, or in any way affect, the undisputed liability for the mortgage of 1837 which arises aliunde, and are a mere declaration of the fact of a liability which the plaintiff has throughout made no attempt to dispute.
Argument	In the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1883) P.J.
Argument	p. 95 cited above, the liability of the <NAME> for their <NAME>'s mortgage was unquestioned, but their <NAME>'s agreement to pay o off a subsequent money bond for Rs.
Argument	175 before paying off the mortgage was held inadmissible as an unregistered document.
Argument	And in holding it inadmissible the case of <ORG> v. <NAME> (1884) P.J.
Argument	p. 254 was cited.
Argument	A reference to that last cited case shows that the reason for holding such subsequent document inadmissible was that it had the effect of limiting 2 the interest o f the mortgagor to the extent of Rs.
Argument	100, and therefore required to be registered.
Argument	This ground cannot apply to Exhibits 58 and 59, all of which limit the mortgagor's interest to an extent less than Rs.
Precedent	100.
RatioOfTheDecision	These cases appear, therefore, inapplicable for the purpose of showing that these documents were compulsorily registrable.
RatioOfTheDecision	They did not operate to impose liability for the mortgage of 1837, which liability plaintiff admits, while he disputes the existence of the agreements which Exhibits 58 and 59 purport to evidence.
Fact	And they do not limit the rights of redemption under the mortgage of 1837 to the extent of Rs.
Fact	100.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is possible that under the recent rulings in <ORG> (1902) A.C. 24 and <ORG> v. <NAME> (1902) 2 Ch.
RatioOfTheDecision	479 the agreement in Exhibit 59 to postpone the time for redemption of the mortgage of 1837 for twenty-five years might have been regarded as void on the ground that it clogged the equity of redemption.
RatioOfTheDecision	But no such point has been taken and the time has long passed at which it m ight have been taken.
RatioOfTheDecision	The documents Exhibits 57, 58 and 59 all purport to be fresh charges on the same security, and are therefore otherwise free from such objection.
RatioOfTheDecision	15.
Argument	The next point taken for appellant is that the provisions of Section 50 of the Registration Act, 1877, apply to these documents Exhibits 57, 58 and 59, viz., that every registered document of the kind mentioned in Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 17 , and therefore Exhibit 56 which falls within that description, shall take effect as regards the property comprised therein, against every unregistered document relating to the same property, and therefore as against such documents as Exhibits 57, 58 and 59.
Argument	To this contention respondents objected that 10 had not been raised in the Courts below or in the memorandum of appeal in this Court.
Precedent	The objection is met by appellant citing the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1892) 17 Bom.
Precedent	100 and <NAME> v. <NAME> (1892) 17 Bom.
Precedent	303 as the new point is purely a question of law, arising on the findings  of the Court below and not affected by any facts outside these findings.
RatioOfTheDecision	The point was, therefore, allowed to be fully argued.
RatioOfTheDecision	And the wording of the section is so clear that the respondents were unable seriously to contend that its provisions would not be fatal to their attempt to charge the property with liability in respect of the unregistered documents (Exhibits 57, 58 and 59) apart from the operation of the equitable doctrine of notice.
RatioOfTheDecision	This grave ground of objection, indeed forms the really important matter of contest in this appeal.
Precedent	The appellant contends that he is a purchaser bona fide without notice, and on its being objected that Exhibit 55 is a registered document containing a recital of incumbrances, it is urged for appellant that registration is at most constructive notice, and that the doctrine of constructive notice cannot be so extended as to cover unregistered documents under which the holders of registered documents derive title, and <ORG> v. <NAME> (1896) 22 Bom.
Precedent	213 is cited, as a uthority.
Precedent	In that case the plaintiffs were out of possession and had purchased under a registered deed from a vendor whose title deed was unregistered, and it was held that plaintiff and his grantors were mere strangers be the land, unless they could rely on the unregistered conveyance which could take no effect upon the property when brought into competition with the registered conveyance to the defendant.
Precedent	And when it was argued that the defendant had notice of the unregistered document through the registered document, the Court held that it would be pushing the doctrine of constructive notice beyond all bounds to held that it is notice of the unregistered documents under which the holders derived their title.
Precedent	If, then, in this case the question rests merely on the competition between registered and unregistered documents, the ruling in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1896) 22 Bom.
Precedent	213 would be decisive against the defendants.
Precedent	Appellant relied also on <CITATION_1289075> (1876) 2 All.
Precedent	851 a Full Bench ruling of the A <ORG>, where the plaintiff sued unsuccessful to recover money by sale of properties hypothecated on unregistered bonds against a defendant to whom the same property had been transferred by registered deed.
Precedent	The case of <CITATION_1804296> (1885) 1 Cal.
Precedent	661 also cited for appellant, is essentially to the same effect.
Precedent	<NAME> v. <NAME> (1888) 13 Bom.
Precedent	229 <NAME> v. <NAME> (1881) 5 Bom.
Precedent	442 and <NAME> v. <NAME>bhamabai (1882) 6 Bom.
Precedent	490 were also cited, but appear irrelevant.
Precedent	The appellant further cites the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1892) 16 Mad.
Precedent	301 and the case there quoted of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1881) 17 Ch.
Precedent	D. 353, 2 pp.
Precedent	357-358 as authority for the position that constructive notice of a deed is constructive notice of its contents, provided the deed is a deed relating to the title and forming part of the chain of title.
Precedent	The case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1881) 17 Ch.
Precedent	D. 353, 2 pp.
Precedent	357-358 however, on a careful perusal appears to me in no way to support the appellant's argument.
Precedent	For that cas e relates to the duty of a purchaser or lessee to look into the chain of his vendor's or lessor's title, and with special reference to the cases of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1841) 1 Here 43 and <NAME> v. <NAME> (1870) L.R.
Precedent	9 Eq.
Precedent	678 appears to exonerate the purchaser or lessee from the duty of enquiry as to a document of which he has contructive notice, only in cases where he might get a complete chain of title without any notice of that document where he would be justified in resting assured that it could not affect him.
Precedent	But <NAME>, M.R., was careful to say, "that line of cases has no bearing at all on a case where you know the deed does affect the land."
Precedent	For reasons to be stated below, however, the cases of <CITATION_547298> (1892) 16 Mad.
Precedent	301 and <NAME> v. <NAME> (1881) 17 Ch.
Precedent	D. 353, 2 pp.
RatioOfTheDecision	357-358 appear to me lay down no principle on which the plaintiff in this case could be relieved from the duty of enquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	The arguments for the appellant throughout assume that the plaintiff was affected only by the construct ive notice which might have been afforded by Exhibit 55, the registered documents under which the defendants claimed.
Precedent	Thus they rely upon <CITATION_1384214> (1881) 7 Cal.
Precedent	199 which is a case in which the Court held that the circumstances wore not sufficient to fix the plaintiff with constructive notice or to put him upon enquiry.
Precedent	And the case is spoken of as falling within the language of <ORG> in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1872) 11 Beng.
Precedent	L.R.
Precedent	53 : 18 Cal.
Precedent	W.R. 166 wherein the principle appropriate rested upon the equity that "where, one man allows another to hold himself out as the owner of an estate, and a third person purchases it, for value, from the apparent owner, in the belief that he is the real owner, the man who so allows the other to hold himself out shall not be permitted to recover upon his secret title," unless he can show direct notice, constructive notice or circumstances putting the purchaser on an enquiry.
Precedent	It is clear that such a case can have no bearing in the present instance.
Precedent	In  the case cited there was no actual notice, and the vendors had been placed in such a position 2 as to be the apparent owners, and it was with reference to those circumstances that <ORG> held that unless there is wilful or fraudulent turning away from enquiry, the doctrine of constructive notice would not apply.
Precedent	The case Re <ORG> (1856) 21 Beav.
RatioOfTheDecision	430 was also referred to.
RatioOfTheDecision	That relates to a charge without notice on a chose in action, and it appears that except so far as the actual notice was given, subsequent incumbrancers could have no knowledge whatever of the existence of any prior charge.
RatioOfTheDecision	In that case the charge was one on a fund in the hands of trustees, and notice was given only of one of two charges created in the same deed, that for the life policy being anmentioned, and that the express notice given implied that no other charge was alleged.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is clear that the principles of that case apply only to the duty of enquiry arising in cases where, apart from constructive notice, th ere is nothing to put the purchaser on enquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present instance the appellant has put his case as if there were nothing but the constructive notice furnished by the registered deed of assignment to the defendants 7-10 (Exhibit 55), and they rely, therefore on the inadequacy of such notice as an all-sufficient protection.
Precedent	For this purpose they lay stress on the cases already cited of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1896) 22 Bom.
Precedent	213 and <NAME> v. <NAME> (1892) 16 Mad.
Precedent	301 and on the ruling in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1896) 23 Cal.
Precedent	790 where approving <CITATION_1371536> .
Precedent	it was held, notwithstanding Bombay decisions, that mere registration is not notice within the meaning of Section 81 of the Transfer of Property Act such as to put on a purchaser responsibility for abstention from enquiry.
Precedent	And if the present case rested only upon the question whether Exhibit 55 was constructive notice of Exhibits 57, 58 and 59, I think that the authorities cited on behalf of appellant would be ap(1891)  15 Mad.
Precedent	268posite on the point whether the plaintiff was bound by the incidental reference to those documents.
Precedent	But the case does not rest there.
Precedent	For, the defendants were admittedly in possession.
Precedent	And it has been held in a long series of cases in this <ORG> that possession is notice, sea especially <NAME> v. <NAME> (1880) 6 Bom.
Precedent	168, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1883) 9 Bom.
Precedent	427, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1879) 4 Bom.
Precedent	129, Sobhagchand v. <NAME> (1882) 6 Bom.
Precedent	193 at p. 201, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1872) 9 Bom.
Precedent	H.C. Rep. 121, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1867) 4 Bom.
Precedent	<ORG> (a.c.), <NAME> v. <NAME> (1869) 6 Bom.
Precedent	H.C. Rep. 59 at p. 62, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1872) 9 Bom.
Precedent	H.C. Rep. 151 f.n., <NAME> v. <NAME> Ibid p. 147.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	The case of <CITATION_84747> (1888) 12 Bom.
Precedent	569, it may be noted, is not really opposed 'to this principle, for the ratio decidendi there proceeded upon the fact that the plaintiff, the prior unregistered mortgagee, was not in actual possession and that his mortgagor was, and that person subseque ntly dealing with the property had no reason to suppose that he was in possession otherwise than as owner.
Precedent	But in the present instance the mortgagee was in possession and apparently had been continuously from 1837.
Precedent	And therefore the plaintiff had every reason to suppose that there was an incumbrance on the property and does not profess to have supposed that there was not "Possession," according to the <ORG> ruling in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1880) 6 Bom.
Precedent	168 has been deemed by Hindu and Mahomedan laws, as interpreted in this Presidency, to amount to notice of such title as the person in possession may have and any other person who bakes a mortgage or other charge upon, or purchases, immoveable property, without ascertaining the nature of the claim of him in possession, does so at his own risk.
Precedent	This is so in England also.
Precedent	See <NAME> v. <NAME> (1811) 17 Vesey 433 and the other cases in which its authority has been recognised, collected in <ORG> (page 1052, edition 11th) and 2 Whit e and Tad or a Loading Cases in Equity, page 61 et seq."
Precedent	This principle is quite distinct from that which was adopted in the same case, on the authority of American cases, as to registration being in itself notice to subsequent purchasers and mortgagees, and appears from note 2 on page 188 of the <ORG> judgment so be based on the remark of <ORG> in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1841) 1 Here 43 vide p. 60 that "possession is prima facie evidence of a seisin in fee."
Precedent	In the passage preceding that remark the Vice-Chancellor stated as a proposition which he did not dispute, "that if a person purchases an estate which he knows to be in the occupation of another than the vendor, he is bound by all the equities which the person in such occupation may have in the land."
Precedent	<NAME> v. <NAME> (1811) 17 Vesey 433 then spoken of "as an extreme case," has, as observed in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1869) Bom.
Precedent	H.C. Rep. 59 at p. 62, been repeatedly acted upon.
Precedent	The Full bench case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1880) 6 Bom.
Precedent	168 w as followed by Sir <NAME> and Mr. Justice <NAME> in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1883) 9 Bom.
Precedent	427, where it was said (pages 428-9), "assuming that the defendant was in possession when the mortgage deed was executed be plaintiff or that plaintiff had otherwise notice of defendant's purchase, it is dear, that the latter could derive no advantage from the registration of his mortgage."
Precedent	This was with special reference to Section 50 of the Registration Act of 1877 and does not rest on the doctrine of constructive notice by registration.
Precedent	<NAME> v. <NAME> (1882) 6 Bom.
Precedent	515, dealing with Section 50 of Act XX of 1866, was cited as to similar effect.
Precedent	<NAME> v. <NAME> was followed in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1885) 10 Bom.
Precedent	105, Sobhagchand v. <NAME> (1882) 6 Bom.
Precedent	193 is another <ORG> ruling laying down that possession is notice to all subsequent intending mortgagees or purchasers of the title of the party in possession.
Precedent	Of the earlier oases--prior to the Registration Act of 1877--Balaram Nemchand v. <NAME> ( 1872) 9 BOm.
Precedent	H.C. 121 was apparently approved in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1867) 4 Bom.
Precedent	89 at p. 92, though distinguished from a case where the prior unregistered document being compulsorily registrable was not admissible in evidence at all.
Precedent	In all the Bombay decisions cited above, the reason for withholding preference from the subsequent registered purchase was based, not on the doctrine that registration was constructive notice, for the prior alienation was in most of them unregistered, but upon the long established and undisputed principle that a purchaser is always bound by all the equities of a third party in possession, because possession presupposes bible and therefore is notice which ought to puts a purchaser on enquiry.
Precedent	In all the cases relied on by appellant as to the inadequacy of constructive notice of documents mentioned in a registered deed, this element of the prior purchaser being in possession was wanting, and in such cases mere registration, as held in <ORG> v. <NAME> (1896)  23 Cal.
Precedent	790 and Shan 2 <CITATION_1371536> .
Precedent	(1891) 15 Mad.
Precedent	268, was therefore deemed insufficient.
RatioOfTheDecision	The principle on which possession is recognised as an element for consideration in cases of competing purchasers, appears to be quite independent of the now discredited doctrine as to the necessity of possession to the validity of a sale under Hindu and Mahomedan laws.
RatioOfTheDecision	For that principle rests on the English equitable doctrine of notice.
Precedent	It seems hardly necessary to observe that in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1893) 18 Bom.
Precedent	332 possession failed to give priority because it was obtained with constructive notice of a prior registered incumbrance, so that the decision in no way questions the effect to be given to possession under a deed prior to that of a rival purchaser.
Precedent	The operation of registration as constructive notice has been questioned by the other <ORG>.
Precedent	<CITATION_383250> (1892) 16 Mad.
Precedent	148 and the cases there cited of <ORG> v. <NAME> and <NAME>.
Precedent	(1884) 10 Cal.
Precedent	1073 show that the doctrine of notice by pos session has been regarded as standing on another and a sounder footing.
Precedent	<ORG> regards possession as "very cogent evidence of notice" (<NAME> case), and <ORG> in <CITATION_1945180> (1886) 8 All.
Precedent	540 refused possession to a mortgagee under a registered possessory mortgage, as against a prior unregistered mortgage accompanied with possession, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 50 of the Registration Act, 1877.
Precedent	This ruling has been more recently referred to in the Allahabad case of <ORG> v. <NAME> (1896) 19 All.
Precedent	145, which cites with apparent approval the Bombay case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1885) 10 Bom.
Precedent	105, which is based on <NAME> v. <NAME> (1882) 6 Bom.
Precedent	515 and <CITATION_1250985> (1886) 13 Cal.
Precedent	667, which accepts the principle laid down in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1885) 11 Cal.
Precedent	667, <NAME> v. <NAME> (1880) 6 Cal.
Precedent	534, and by <ORG> in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1879) 4 Bom.
Precedent	126.
Precedent	17.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that the notice referred to in these ca ses does not in each instance appear to have consisted solely in possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the general consensus of opinion of all the <ORG>, following English decisions, appears to be that possession is at least very cogent evidence of notice which a purchaser cannot with safety disregard, and that Section 50 of the Registration Act, 1877, does not do away with the effect of notice, in favour of the registration to which ceteris paribus it gives preference.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears to be the result of the Bombay decisions that no purchaser can protect himself merely.
RatioOfTheDecision	by registering his document of title, against the title of a person in possession of the subject-matter, and if he ignores that possession and fails to make inquiry into its nature and origin, he will be affected by all the equities which the person in possession is proved to have.
RatioOfTheDecision	This being the case, I think that when the plaintiff found that the property of which he bought the equity was in the possession of the defendants, it was for him to enquire into the n ature of his vendor's title and the extent of the liabilities to which he was subject.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was contended for respondents that he had actual notice in the shape of direct information.
RatioOfTheDecision	That contention was not substantiated.
RatioOfTheDecision	But he had full knowledge that there was some incumbrance apart from the registered assignment (Exhibit 55), to defendants 7-10.
RatioOfTheDecision	He contends that at most he had constructive notice through that registered document, and that it was not explicit or binding as to Exhibits 57, 58 and 59.
RatioOfTheDecision	But the question is whether he can shield himself under that document as affording him misleading information with regard to his vendor's title.
RatioOfTheDecision	I do not think he can.
RatioOfTheDecision	For the document (Exhibit 55), though not explicit, does mention the further charges and could not relieve the plaintiff from further inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	Moreover, it was not the basis of his vendor's title and if there had been no such document in existence, and if defendants 2-6 had never assigned their mortgage rights, the plaintiff rinding them in possess ion would have been no less bound to inquire as to the title of his vendor and the manifest incumbrance on it.
RatioOfTheDecision	And this duty would not have been fulfilled by his assuming, on the discovery of one of the liabilities attaching to the property, that there were No.
RatioOfTheDecision	others to support the claim of the person in possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	That is to say, he was not entitled, merely because he may have known of the mortgage of 1837, to abstain from all further inquiry and profess that he could not be bound by any other title deed, however genuine, in favour of the person in possession.
Precedent	The recent case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1902) 1 Ch.
Precedent	428, 433 seems to make this clear in the passage which says: "If a purchaser or mortgagee has notice that the vendor is not in possession of the property, he must make inquiries of the person in possession, of the tenant who is in possession, and find out from' him what Ms rights are, and, if he does not choose to do that, then whatever title he acquires as purchaser or mortgagee will be subject to the tit le or right of the tenant in possession."
RatioOfTheDecision	And it seems to me that if the Exhibits 57, 58 and 59 are genuine, as the lower <ORG> has found as a fact they are, the plaintiff is no more exonerated in respect of those documents than he would have been if they had been the only liabilities justifying the possession of the defendants.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the face of Exhibit 55 it would be difficult (if the plaintiff relied on that document as excusing him from further inquiry) to say that the plaintiff had no reason, because he had notice of Exhibit 55, to make any further inquiry.
RatioOfTheDecision	It showed at least that a charge very largely in excess of Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	645 was alleged in favour of those in possession, and was, therefore, no excuse for stopping all the inquiry which, had no such document existed, the plaintiff would have been bound to make.
RatioOfTheDecision	The case has been obscured, I think, by arguments as to constructive notice given by Exhibit 55.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it was defendants' possession which gave the real ground for inquiry, and Exhibit 55 would no t entitle plaintiff to dispense with any inquiry which he would have been bound to make if that document had never been passed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The case, therefore, seems a very simple one when reduced to its ultimate issues.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> has found that "on the 3rd December, 1897, plaintiff purchased the equity of redemption from defendant 1 for Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	50," and "that the defendant 1 had "mortgaged with possession."
RatioOfTheDecision	It was then for the plaintiff to find out what the state of the title was, and if he did not do so, he would be bound by all the rights proved in favour of the defendants in possession.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> has found as a fact what those rights were, holding Exhibits 57, 58 and 59 genuine.
RatioOfTheDecision	That finding on second appeal is, I think, binding, and though the non-delivery to, and non-production by, the assignees of those exhibits may be ground for suspicion, the finding cannot be interfered with, and it is conceivable that the defendants 2-6 being descendants of the original mortgagees may not at first  have been able to lay their hands on those documents, which were of minor importance, and were possibly disregarded at date of the assignment when no question of redemption had been mooted.
RatioOfTheDecision	Had the plaintiff insisted on information being furnished, they might possibly have been brought forward earlier.
RatioOfTheDecision	But there is no allegation that he ever made inquiry and was refused information as to their existence.
RatioOfTheDecision	They have been found genuine.
RatioOfTheDecision	And I think the plaintiff could escape liability for them only by showing that he had made inquiry and had no reason on inquiry to believe in their existence.
RatioOfTheDecision	He cannot now urge that defendants could not or would not have disclosed them on inquiry made.
RatioOfTheDecision	The utmost he can claim is to show that they ware actually suppressed or that he was misled on his applying to the defendants in possession for information.
RatioOfTheDecision	This is not a point which seems to have been considered to the Courts below.
RatioOfTheDecision	The lower <ORG> appears to have treated the case as one in which no such suggestion had  been raised in argument.
RatioOfTheDecision	And neither Court has dealt with the case at all with reference to the liability of the plaintiff as a purchaser, who having notice of defendants' possession had abstained from inquiry into the title.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question of limitation as to Exhibits 57, 58 and 59 does not appear to have been urged, those documents being payable according to their tenour, it would seem, only when redemption was claimed, so that till redemption was sought time would not begin to run in respect thereof under Article 132 , and the point does not seem to have been taken in the lower <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	The only real questions in the case appear to be (a) whether the defendants' possession was notice which bound plaintiff to inquire, (6) whether if this be so, he could rely on Section 50 of the Registration Act as giving him an absolute priority which could not be affected by the equitable doctrine of notice arising from possession in the defendants, and (c) whether, if the plaintiff cannot rely on Section 50 of the Registrat ion Act as giving him absolute priority, but was also bound by the possession of the defendants to inquire into the nature and extent of their rights, he had made due inquiry and been misled, or put of his guard or been refused information altogether.
RatioOfTheDecision	This last question is one of fact, which, owing to the view the lower Courts took of the case, was not inquired into and decided, and I would, therefore, send the case back to the lower Court for a decision on the above question, viz., whether the plaintiff did inquire and, if so, whether he was misled, put off his guard or refused information.
RatioOfTheDecision	Return to be made in two months.
Precedent	<NAME>, J.
Precedent	18.
Fact	The main question in this case is whether appellant <NAME> (original plaintiff) should be treated as fixed with knowledge of the contents of Exhibits 57, 58 and 59 when he purchased the plaint lands in 1897 from defendant <NAME>.
Fact	But certain features in the case require preliminary consideration:  On the 17th December, 1837, the grandfather of defendant 1 mortgaged the plaint  lands to one <NAME>, the ancestor of descendants 2-6, for Rs.
Fact	648-12-8, the mortgage being usufructuary and the profits to be enjoyed in lieu of interest.
Fact	19.
Fact	The plaintiff <NAME>, on 3rd December, 1897, by registered deed (Exhibit 78) purchased she plaint lands from defendant 1 and became owner of the equity of redemption.
Fact	He brought this suit to redeem this one mortgage and recover possession on payment of Rs.
Fact	645-12-3, the amount of the said mortgage which ha Bought to redeem.
Precedent	20.
Precedent	Defendants 2-6, descendants of <NAME>, replied that they had transferred their rights to defendants 7-10.
Precedent	21.
Fact	Defendants 7-10 disputed the plaintiff's purchase of the equity of redemption, and replied farther that the original mortgagor's sons and daughters had passed other "money bonds" to <NAME> and that they ought to be parties to this suit: and defendants 7--10 further pleaded that they had purchased the plaint lands from defendant 2 on 12th April, 1893 (under Exhibit 55, a registered document), for Rs.
Fact	1,275 a nd had spent Rs.
Fact	1,225 on improving the land, and that the total money due to them on the said mortgage was Rs.
Fact	2,500 which ought to be paid to them.
Precedent	22.
Precedent	It will be observed that Rs.
Precedent	2,500 is exactly Rs.
Precedent	1.275 plus Rs.
Fact	1,225 and that there is no mention, in this defence of defendants 7--10, of any claim in respect of any other mortgage or charge.
Fact	There is no mention of the number, dates or amounts of the other bonds vaguely referred to: they are expressly called "money" bonds, and the plea raised in respect of them is not any claim to increase the redemption money payable, but a plea that the sons and daughters of the original mortgagor should be made parties.
Fact	23.
Fact	Nor is there any mention in the issues framed in the suit of any mortgage other than the one which the plaintiff <ORG> sued to redeem, that is, the mortgage of 17th December, 1837, for Rs.
Fact	695-12-3.
Precedent	24.
Fact	The issues framed were:  1.
Fact	Whether or not the plaintiff's assignment is proved?
RulingByLowerCourt	2.
Fact	It not, whether or not the plaintiff has a right to bring  this suit?
RatioOfTheDecision	3.
RatioOfTheDecision	What amount is due on the mortgage sought to be redeemed, including cost of repairing and improving the property and the payment of dast thereon by <NAME>?
RatioOfTheDecision	4.
RatioOfTheDecision	If redemption is to be allowed, on what terms can it be allowed?
RatioOfTheDecision	5.
Precedent	To what relief, if any, is the plaintiff entitled?
Precedent	25.
Precedent	The Subordinate Judge first decided that the plaintiff <NAME>'s purchase of the equity of redemption (Exhibit 78) was not proved, and dismissed the suit.
Precedent	This decree was reversed in appeal on the finding that "the plaintiff is entitled to redeem the mortgage in question," and the suit was remanded for findings on the other issues and a fresh decision according to law.
Precedent	26.
Fact	After this remand the Subordinate Judge decided, under the third issue already repeated above, that "Rs.
Fact	1,130-12-3 are due on account of the mortgage sought to be redeemed," and decreed redemption on payment of this sum with coats in proportion to defendants 7--10.
Fact	27.
Fact	The above amount, Rs.
Fact	1,130-12-3, is in fact made up of Rs.
Fact	645-12-3 on accou nt of the mortgage sought to be redeemed and Rs.
Fact	242-8-0 plus interest Rs.
Fact	242 8-0 on account of three other mortgages not mentioned in the pleadings or issues, disputed by the plaintiff and introduced into the case in the following manner.
Fact	28.
Fact	The deed (Exhibit 55) of 12th April, 1893, under which the defendants 7--10 purchased from defendant 1, <NAME>, the rights of the original mortgagee for Rs.
Fact	1,275, has been translated and runs as follows:  Sale-dead.
Fact	The 11th of <NAME> in Shake 1815, the 12th of April, 1899, the cyclical name of the year being Vijaya, On this day (this) sale-deed is passed in "writing to <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME> and <NAME>, Chambhars, residing at Panchanadi, by <NAME>, residing at Kalthare, taluka Dapoli, at present at Ratnagiri, I give in, writing as follows: I have this day taken from you Rs.
Fact	1,275, namely, twelve hundred and seventy-five in cash.
Fact	(In consideration) for the same (1) sell the  following property situate at the village of Kashe Panchanadi, sub-district Dapoli, district Ratnagiri.
Fact	The said property has been with me (i.e., my grandfather) for vahivat under a mortgage by a deed dated the 9th of Margshirsha Vadya Shake 1759 (21st December, 1887) from the deceased <NAME> of Kolthare for the principal sum of Rs.
Fact	645-12-3 and on the security of the same (property) his direct heirs took (i.e., borrowed) from me (from my <NAME>) further sums of money and executed documents in respect thereof on stamped papers.
Fact	In addition to this I made repairs, &c, to the said thikan for which money is due to me under the terms of the original deed on account of expenses.
Fact	Making up the whole account including this (last) item, a very large sum becomes due to me.
Fact	However, on receiving from you now the amount above mentioned, I have sold to you my right as mortgagee of this property..
Fact	The said property is as follows.--Survey No.
Fact	87, sub.
Fact	No.
Fact	1, area 2 acres and 21 gunthas, assessment  Rs.
Fact	16-8.
Fact	I have sold the mortgage right of this property to you as stated above.
Fact	You should therefore carry on the vahivat thereof from generation to generation through sons, grandsons, &c., pay the Government assessment and take the hot season and rainy season profits in lieu of interest.
Fact	The profit or loss is yours.
Fact	Should the owner come to you to pay the mortgage amount within the period prescribed by law, you should receive the amount in accordance with terms of the deed executed by him, and make over the property to him.
Fact	If thereby you receive an amount more or less than the amount now received by mo, the same shall be yours.
Fact	Neither myself nor my kinsmen have anything to do with the same.
Fact	Should any obstruction be caused by my kinsmen as regards the said property, I will remove the same.
Fact	Also, I shall get the khata in respect of assessment transferred (to you).
Fact	I have duly executed this sale deed, of my own free will and pleasure.
Fact	The handwriting of <NAME>, inhabitant of Ratnagiri.
Precedent	29.
Fact	It  will be seen that there is mention of further sums having been borrowed on the security of the same property, bat the further documents as to which no particulars are given as to number, date or amount are not called mortgage-bonds, but are called "documents on stamped papers."
Fact	Mention is made of an account being made up which by including expenses for repairs (since 1837) amounted to a "very large sum."
Fact	There is no express statement that the debts subsequently incurred were assigned to the persons in whose favour Exhibit 55 was passed, and the words "I have sold to you my right as mortgagee of this property," read with the express mention of the mortgage of 1837 and the passage later on.
Fact	"Should the owner come to you to pay the mortgage amount within the period prescribed by law, you should receive the amount in accordance with the terms of the deed executed by him and make over the property to him," are sufficiently general to leave room for contention that this was a sale of the mortgage rights under the  mortgage deed Exhibit 56 of 1837, and nothing more.
Fact	It was contended for the appellant <NAME> (original plaintiff) that this was clearly what defendants 7--10 understood as shown by their written statement and defence to this Suit, already described above, as well as by the fact that none of these further bonds called "money bonds" by defendants 7--10 were made over by defendant 1 to defendants 7--10.
Fact	30.
Fact	It appears, however, that-at the hearing of the suit; there were produced from the custody of defendant 2, <NAME> (who, it will be remembered, was the person who executed Exhibit 55), three bonds purporting to be more than thirty years old but unregistered.
Fact	31. they are Exhibits 57, 58 and 59.
Fact	They purport to create further charges on the property mortgaged in 1837, and to be dated March 1864, February 1865, and March 1866, and two of them to have been executed by <NAME>, <NAME> of defendant 1, and the third by <NAME>, a daughter of the original mortgagor, the grandfather of defendant 1.
Fact	The first is for Rs.
Fact	57-8-0, the second for Rs.
Fact	95 and the third for Rs.
Fact	90--in all Rs.
Fact	242-8-0--and the rate of interest fixed in each is twelve per cent.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	The Subordinate Judge, without discussing the custody from which these three unregistered documents had come into Court considered them proved by the evidence of witness 61 and because defendant 2 (who has no interest in the plaint property) admits all these mortgages in his examination (<ORG>bit 60).
Precedent	33.
Precedent	The Assistant Judge who decided the appeal does not mention the evidence of witness <ORG>bit 61, but held these three bonds (<ORG>bits 57, 58, 59) to be genuine, and to be in the identical bonds mentioned in <ORG>bit 55 without number, dates or amounts.
Precedent	His reasons for coming to this conclusion as far as can be gathered from his judgment recorded are: first, that defendants 7--10 are illiterate men of the lowest caste, while defendants 2-6 are educated Brahmins who probably took advantage of the ignorance of defendants 7-10, and therefore retained <ORG> bits ,57, 58, 59 for some purpose of their own instead of handing them over to defendants 7--10, as they must have known perfectly well that they should have done; secondly, because Exhibit 55 makes mention of other stamped documents passed by direct heirs of the original mortgagor, and the evidence that there were any improvements which could have raised the purchase value of the mortgage rights from Rs.
Precedent	645-12-3 to Rs.
Precedent	1,275 in Exhibit 55 is unsatisfactory.
Precedent	34.
Precedent	The Assistant Judge, holding that the rule of damdupat does not apply where the original mortgagor was a Mahomedan, varied the decree in the cross appeal of defendants 7--10 by raising the Rs.
Precedent	485 calculated by the Subordinate Judge as due under these three bonds to Rs.
Precedent	1,192-7-7, making the total amount payable by plaintiff <NAME> for redemption Rs.
Precedent	1,838-5-10 instead of Rs.
Precedent	1,130-12-3.
Precedent	35.
Precedent	It has been contended for the appellant <NAME> (original plaintiff) that the lower appellate <ORG>'s finding of fact that Exhibits 67, 58, 59 are genuine doc uments is vitiated by the method by which this conclusion is arrived at, beause the Assistant Judge seems to have dispensed with formal evidence as to their execution by treating them as ancient documents coming from proper custody and by drawing the presumption permissible under Section 90 of the Evidence Act (I of 1873) as to handwriting, execution and attestation.
Precedent	36.
Precedent	This contention would be sound if the Assistant Judge had really adopted such a presumption, under Section 90 of the Evidence Acts, as the basis of his decision that Exhibits 57, 58, 59 are genuine.
Precedent	Illustration (a) to Section 90 says:  A has been in possession of landed property for a long time.
Precedent	He produces from his custody deeds relating to the land showing his titles to it.
Precedent	The custody is proper.
Precedent	37.
Precedent	The "particular case" in the present suit is the exact converse.
Precedent	The defendants 7--10, under the new case they set up at a later stage of the suit, claimed to have become assignees under Exhibit 55 passed by defendant 2 of the three several  debts charged upon the plaint property by Exhibits 57, 58, 59, and they produced the latter three documents from the custody of defendant 2 when, according to the case for defendants 7--10, these three documents (Exhibits 57, 58, 59) ought to have been produced from their own custody if these particular charges became assigned to them under Exhibit 55 by defendant 2 in April, 1893.
Precedent	38.
Argument	But though the Assistant Judge describes the custody of defendant 2 as "not improper," he seams to have merely meant that he preferred to s believe that defendant 2 had overreached defendants 7--10 and had improperly retained documents he should have handed over to defendants 7--10, rather than believe that Exhibits 57, 58 59 are fabricated or that other bonds--simple money bonds--have been suppressed by defendants 7-10.
Argument	39.
Argument	In fact, the judgment says that Exhibits 57, 58, 59 should have been handed over by defendant 2 to defendants 7--10 when Exhibit 55 was passed: in other words, the proper custody in this particular case f or Exhibits 57, 58, 59 is the custody of defendants 7--10 from which they were not produced.
RatioOfTheDecision	There cannot, I think, be two different proper custodies for any document at a given time in any particular case.
RatioOfTheDecision	I agree, therefore, with the view of the lower <ORG> that if Exhibits 57, 58, 59 had been produced in this particular case from the custody of defendants 7--10 they would have come from proper custody.
RatioOfTheDecision	They did not come from the custody of defendants 7--10, who, therefore, cannot obtain advantage from the provisions of Section 90 of the Evidence Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	The explanation suggested by the Assistant Judge as to why they came from defendant 2 may help to remove suspicion as to their being genuine, but it does not relieve defendants 7--10 of the necessity of proving Exhibits 57, 58, 59 independently of the provisions of the said section.
RatioOfTheDecision	Nevertheless, I read the judgment of the lower <ORG> as recognising this and as basing the finding of fact, that these unregistered Exhibits 57, 58, 59 are genu ine and are the identical documents on stamped papers referred to in Exhibit 55 and were assigned by defendant 2 to defendants 7--10 upon the evidence actually recorded in the suit, such as it is.
RatioOfTheDecision	40.
Argument	There remains the question whether it was rightly decided that the appellant <NAME> is bound to pay the charges created by Exhibits 57, 58, 59 in addition to the mortgage debt of Rs.
Argument	645-12-3 before he can recover possession of the plaint property from defendants 7--10.
Argument	41.
RatioOfTheDecision	The plaintiff's purchase from defendant 1 of the equity of redemption in 1897 by Exhibit 78 is registered, whilst Exhibits 57, 58, 59 are not registered.
Precedent	Section 50 of the Registration Act (III of 1877) "confers priority on documents required to be registered and accordingly registered since Act III of 1877 was passed over all prior unregistered documents of an antagonistic character" : <NAME> v. <NAME> (1895) 20 Bom.
Precedent	158.
Precedent	But "in spite of the large words of the exacting part this <ORG> has consistently limited them to the cases where t he subsequent purchaser has no notice of the prior unregistered conveyance": <NAME> v. <NAME> (1893) 18 Bom.
Precedent	355.
Argument	The respondent's pleader, relying, therefore, on the equitable doctrine of notice, contended that by reason of the registration of the deed of assignment (Exhibit 55) passed by defendant 2 in April, 1893, the appellant-plaintiff had notice of the transactions set out in the unregistered documents (Exhibits 57, 58, 59), so far as they can be taken to be dealt with by Exhibit 55.
Precedent	This contention is sufficiently met by the decision in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1896) 22 Bom.
Precedent	213 where it was said by <NAME>, C.J., "the register may be notice, and in most cases under the rulings of this <ORG> doubtless is, of the registered documents which it contains, but it would be pushing the doctrine of constructive notice beyond all bounds to hold that it is notice of the unregistered documents under which the holders of registered documents B derive their title."
Precedent	42.
Precedent	But possession being equivalent to notice of su ch title as the person in possession may have, both under Hindu, Mahomedan and English laws see Lakshmandas v. Dasrat (1882) 6 Bom.
Argument	168, and the respondents being in possession as assignees of the usufructuary mortgage of 1837 when appellant bought the equity of redemption from defendant No.
Precedent	1 in 1897, the point has been raised, without, however, any argument being specially directed to it at the hearing, whether such possession was notice to appellant of the subsequent charges purporting to be created by the unregistered Exhibits 57, 58, 59.
Precedent	43.
Precedent	In equity it is sufficient to charge a man with knowledge that he had that before him which, if he had used due diligence, would have afforded the knowledge he desires: per Lord <NAME> in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1868) 3 E. and 1 App.
Precedent	171 at p. 221 quoted by <NAME>, C.J., in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1869) 6 Bom.
Precedent	H.C. 59, where, on the English authorities cited, the duty to make inquiry into the title when the vendor is not in possession is insisted upon.
Precedent	In the case of  <NAME> v. <NAME> there was neglect to make such inquiry.
Precedent	In the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> (1883) 7 Bom.
Precedent	At p. 145 it was said by <NAME>, J.: "Had he taken up another line of defence we might perhaps have given him an opportunity of showing that at the time of his purchase he did make inquiries and was informed and believed that the mortgage had been foreclosed."
Precedent	44.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> (1881) 17 Ch.
Precedent	D. 353, where it was held that a purchaser or lessee having notice of a deed passing part of his vendor's or lessor's title has constructive notice of the contents of such deed, it was said by <NAME>, M.R.
Precedent	: "Supposing you are buying land of a married man, as in <NAME> v. <NAME> (1841) 1 Hare 43, and you are told at the same time that there is a marriage settlement but the deed does not affect the land in question, you have no constructive notice of its contents, because although you know there is a settlement you are told it does not affect the land."
Precedent	And again at page 358: "Therefore I think there was s ufficient to pub the lessee off his guard."
Precedent	45.
Precedent	<CITATION_1911635> (1881) 17 Ch.
Precedent	D. at p. 442 it was said by <NAME>, J.: These questions of notice and of the effect of notice are some of the most difficult questions which <ORG> has to deal with, and I cannot help feeling that we must be very careful not to strain the doctrine of notice too far and to make it involve consequences of liability to persons who may be practically innocent."
RatioOfTheDecision	And again at page 448: "If a man has notice that there is a deed or document and at the same time, has notice that that deed or document is entirely worthless or does not affect the property with which he is going to deal, he is put so completely off his guard that <ORG> does not treat him as fixed with knowledge of the document or the effect of it."
RatioOfTheDecision	46.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act (IV of 1882) a person is said to have "notice" of a fact when he actually knows that fact, or when but for wilful abstention from an inquiry or search which  he ought; to have made, or gross negligence, he would have known it, or when information of the fact is given to or obtained by his agent, under the circumstances mentioned in the Indian Contract Act , 1872, Section 229 .
RatioOfTheDecision	47.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now in the present case though defendants 1 and 2 after parting 2 with all their respective interest in the plaint land have shown a readiness to support the belated claim of defendants 7-10 to hold the plaint land subject to the charges purporting to be created by Exhibits 57, 58, 59 after the mortgage of 1887, it does not follow that this was the attitude adopted by defendants 1 and 2 all along.
RatioOfTheDecision	48.
RatioOfTheDecision	The reference in Exhibit 55 to other documents on stamped paper is vague and the written statement of defendants 7-10 does not suggest any belief on the part of these defendants that they held the plaint land subject to any such further charges.
RatioOfTheDecision	They in fact resisted redemption until they were paid Rs.
Fact	1,275, the price paid to defendant 2, and Rs.
Fact	1,225 for improvements, and they describ ed the later bonds as "money bonds" without basing any claim upon them.
RatioOfTheDecision	49.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is nothing on the record to show that the plaintiff made no inquiry when he purchased the equity of redemption from defendant 1, nor does the written statement of defendants 7-10 suggest that any such inquiry would have led to an assertion by defendants 7-10 in 1887 of any claim under Exhibits 57, 58, 59 or to the production of those documents which were not in the custody of defendants 7-10 at any time.
RatioOfTheDecision	50.
RatioOfTheDecision	The claim pat forward under Exhibits 57, 58, 59 is, as already pointed out, a later development of the defence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The point whether <NAME> was fixed with knowledge of the contents of Exhibits 57, 58, 59 by means of the possession of defendants 7--10 is a still-later development, and <NAME>, the appellant-plaintiff, has not been given a proper opportunity to meet the new case thus brought forward for the defendants 7--10.
RulingByPresentCourt	For the above reasons I concur entirely in the view that this appeal cannot be decided on the ground th at plaintiff was at the time of his purchase fixed with the knowledge of the charges purporting to be created by Exhibits 57, 58, 59 until the plaintiff has been given the opportunity to show whether at the time of his purchase from defendant 1 he did make inquiries as to the possession of defendants 7--10, and with what result, so that it may be ascertained whether he was offered the same information as that given in the written defence of defendants 7--10 and was misled or put off his guard as to the nature and extent of the rights of defendants 7--10.
