Fact	JUDGMENT A.G. <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	This order shall govern the disposal of M.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	1297 of 89 (<ORG> and <NAME>) and M.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	682 of 1991 ( <CITATION_274194> and 3 Ors.).
Fact	2.
Fact	M.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	1297 of 1989 has been filed by the petitioners against the respondents under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India seeking the relief of quashing the show cause notice Annexure-P19 being without jurisdiction and barred by limitation hence being illegal and biased.
Fact	During the pendency of this petition the petitioners in M.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	682 of 1991 started the manufacture of the same product which was the subject matter of the earlier petition.
Fact	They, therefore, submitted a classification list for suitable classification of the Ayurvedic product 'SWAD' for treating it as an Ayurvedic preparation, whereupon the respondent No.
Fact	4, Superintendent, Central Excise, issued a show cause notice dated 8-1-1991 to the petitioner Company that why the product SWAD be not classified as confectionery instead of Ayurvedic med icine.
Fact	Thereafter a corrigendum was also issued by the Superintendent, <ORG>.
Fact	Then the Assistant Collector, <ORG>, Indore issued a notice of show cause to the petitioner <ORG> as to why the product be not classified as a confectionery.
Fact	The petitioner <ORG> requested the Authorities to extend the time for submission of reply in view of the pendency of a similar petition on similar grounds before this Court.
Fact	But the Assistant Collector refused to stay the proceedings.
Fact	Hence a writ petition was filed by the petitioner seeking the issuance of a writ restraining the Assistant Collector, <ORG> and the Superintendent, <ORG>, Indore from taking any further action on the show cause notices Annexures P-6, P-7 and P-8 being illegal and without jurisdiction.
Fact	3.
Fact	As the main petition which was pending before this Court is M.P.
Fact	No.
Fact	1287 of 1989, the facts leading to this petition may be briefly stated.
Fact	The petitioner <ORG> manufactures an Ayurvedic product at the ir factory at Niran-janpur.
Fact	As a part of their preparation they manufacture a product called SWAD tablets.
Fact	According to the petitioners the SWAD tablet is used as therapeutic prophylactic purposes and is an Ayurvedic product and as such the product falls under Chapter 30 of pharmaceutical products, Heading 30.03, sub-heading 3003.30.
Fact	SWAD tablets are medicaments as defined in note 2(i) to Chapter 30.
Fact	These tablets have been prepared in accordance with the ingredients mentioned in the authoritative text book of Ayurved called Bhavprakash.
Fact	There are two commentaries on this book by well-known Ayurvedic experts, which have also been stated in the petition.
Fact	The petitioner Company after taking the ingredients from the book, evolved its own formula and got it patented in the name of SWAD tablets from <ORG> under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act .
Fact	The formula of the tablet was filed before <ORG> Bhopal on 6-6-1986 and it was approved on 18-7-1986.
Fact	The ap proval letter is Ex.
Fact	P-2.
Fact	A classification list was filed by the petitioner firm before the Superintendent, <ORG> on 25-8-1986 (Annexure-P3).
Fact	On demand by the Authorities the necessary papers of purchase etc.
Fact	were submitted by the petitioners, vide Annexure-P4.
Fact	The licence issued by <ORG> was also submitted on 26-9-1986 by Annexure-P5.
Fact	Thereafter the Assistant Collector, <ORG> provisionally approved the classification list on 15-10-1986 under Rule 9B of the <ORG> Rules, 1944.
Fact	Thereafter enquiries were made by respondents Nos.
Fact	3 and 4 under Rule 173B of the <ORG> Rules regarding the final approval of the classification list, wherein the formula of the tablet was also sought.
Fact	The petitioner firm sent all the necessary details, vide Annexure P-8.
Fact	As such, after making due enquiry the classification was approved by the letter dated 9-1-1988, vide Annexure P-9.
Fact	4.
Fact	However, the enquiries continued and a query about the glucose sugar was mad e by Annexure P-10 which was replied by Annexure P-11.
Fact	Again, vide Annexure P-12 the quantity of sugar was asked to which letter Annexure P-13 was sent by the petitioners.
Fact	Thereafter the production of sugar syrup and its value was asked for by letter Annexure P-14.
Fact	The petitioner filed reply to the said letter, vide Annexure P-15.
Fact	Thereafter the Inspector of <ORG>, Range 5, took the sugar syrup and the SWAD tablet for test on 26-12-1988 and 6-2-1989, respectively vide Annexures P-16 and P-17.
Fact	Other documents were also sought by the Inspector, whereupon all the necessary documents sought were supplied.
Fact	As such, all through there has been no mis-statement or suppression of any material facts in relation to the process and manufacture of SWAD by the petitioner.
Fact	5.
Fact	The Collector, <ORG>, respondent No.
Fact	2, issued a show cause notice under Section 11A of <ORG> Act to the petitioner firm to show cause why the SWAD tablet be not classified under sub-heading 1704.90 relating to sugar  confectionery instead of sub-heading 3003.30 relating to pharmaceutical products and why an amount of over one crore be not recovered under Rule 9(2) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 read with Section 11A of the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 and why penalty under Rules 9(2), 52A(5) and 173B(2) of Central Excise Rules be not imposed for contravention of the said Rules.
Fact	The notice is Annexure P-19, which is challenged in this petition on various grounds.
Argument	6.
Argument	Firstly it has been contended by the petitioners that the classification list was finally approved on 9-1-1988 after due enquiry under sub-rule (2) of Rule 173-B.
Argument	The Assistant Collector acts as a quasi judicial authority.
Argument	The power to modify classification list is provided in sub-rule (5) of Rule 173B.
Argument	As such without modification of the classification list show cause notice for recovery under Sections 11A and 173B of the Central Excise Act and Rules, is illegal.
Argument	7.
Argument	Secondly it has been stated that the classification list once approved finally can not be received because the approval of the classification is a quasi judicial function and there is no power of review under the Act.
Argument	Thirdly it has been stated that Section 11A applies to recovery of duty not paid/not levied or short paid/short levied and not to change a classification list.
Argument	The- classification list can be changed only under sub-rule (5) of Rule 173B after affording an opportunity of hearing to the other party.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is only after the change of the classification list that a notice for recovery can be made.
Argument	8.
Argument	Fourthly it has been contended that the duty can be recovered only prospectively after the order modifying classification list and not retrospectively.
Argument	9.
Argument	On merits it has been submitted that the product is an Ayurvedic preparation and the greater proportion of glucose is no ground to hold that it is a confectionery.
Argument	It has also been stated that in many medical syrups, which are known and treated as medicines, the glucose base is over 90 per cent and still they are treated as medicines .
Argument	The license was obtained by the petitioners from the Drug Controller, M.P.
Argument	and the license has been issued after ascertaining that the product is an Ayurvedic product.
Argument	It has also been stated that as the Assistant Collector approved the classification list, the review can be made only by him and not the Collector.
Argument	It has also been stated that the show cause notice is barred by limitation as Annexure P-l to Annexure P-18 clearly show that there was full disclosure of all the facts by the petitioners.
Argument	It has also been submitted that the Collector has already made up his mind in respect of changing the classification of the product and, therefore, the notice, is biased.
Argument	10.
Argument	The petition was resisted on the ground that the petitioners have used liquid glucose in the manufacture of their product SWAD from the very beginning but there is no mention of this in the ingredients either in their said drug licence or on the wrapper of the product.
Argument	The second ground is that the weight of the tablet has been declared as  250 milligrams containing total 104 mg of Kala Namak, Sendha Namak, Nimbu Ka Sar, Kali Mirch, lira, Ajwain, Sounth, Pipla Mul and Lendi Pipal, whereas in fact each tablet of SWAD weighs 3350 mg containing the same quantity i.e.
Argument	104 mg of the said 9 Ayurvedic ingredients.
Argument	The Book mentioned in the Drug licence has not been followed.
Argument	As such by mis-statement and suppression of fact the petitioners have managed to classify their product SWAD as an Ayurvedic Patent or Proprietary Medicine 'with intent to evade <ORG> duty, but in fact it is not an Ayurvedic product for the following reason:  (i) Liquid glucose is an Allopathic ingredient and it has not been mentioned as ingredient in any Ayurvedic, Sidha or <ORG> system of medicine specified in the first Schedule of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940.
Argument	(ii) The weight of each tablet is 3.35 grams instead of 250 mgs., whereas the total weight of the Ayurvedic ingredients is only 104 mg.
Argument	Thus, the overall percentage of the ingredients has come down fr om 42 per cent to only 33 per cent, and the percentage of sugar is 97 per cent instead of 58 per cent.
Argument	As such by inclusion of such higher percentage of sugar the product has lost the characteristics of Ayurvedic medicine.
Argument	As such the preparation is against the very book of Ayurvedic system which was followed by the notices.
Argument	As such it has got no therapeutic or prophylactic uses.
Argument	Further more no specific doses have also been mentioned.
Argument	As such the plea of the respondents is that the product SWAD has not been recognised as Ayurvedic medicine in a standard Ayurvedic work and has not been so proved by clinical trials and also has not been recognised so by the <ORG> like Director General of Health Services.
Argument	It has also been stated that <ORG> (<ORG>) in an identical case against <ORG>, has held the product as a confectionery.
Argument	The Deputy Chief Chemist of <ORG> has also, after visiting the factory of the petitioner and examining the goods and the process of ma nufacture, opined that the <ORG> is a sugar confectionery.
Argument	In any case the classification has to be resolved by the quasi judicial authorities themselves and, therefore, a writ under Article 226 of the Constitution does not lie.
Argument	As the classification has been obtained by the petitioner by mis-statement and suppressing the material facts and the petitioner has also changed the proportion of the ingredients, therefore, the notice under Section 11A and Rule 173B is a valid notice.
Argument	In any case this is not the stage wherein the Court should adjudicate on the validity of the notice because the petitioner has a chance to show cause before the <ORG>.
Precedent	11.
Precedent	M.P.
Argument	No.
Argument	682 of 1991 has also been opposed on the aforesaid grounds and it has been stated by the respondents in that petition that they have filed detailed replies in M.P.
Argument	No.
Argument	1297 of 1989 and those facts may be treated as reply in this petition also along with the annexures.
Argument	12.
Argument	Before considering the respective contentions of the parties it is also necessary  to briefly state the various rejoinders and the documents filed in M.P.
Argument	No.
Argument	1297 of 1989.
Argument	In the rejoinder of the petitioner dated 25-10-1989 it is stated that on the basis of the circular of Collector, Ex.
Argument	P-20, it is manifest that the respondent No.
Argument	3 is biased against the petitioner.
Argument	Ex.
Argument	P-20 shows that the respondent No.
Argument	3 has already made up his mind before hearing the petitioner.
Argument	Therefore, the objection of the respondents about the tenability of the petition cannot be looked into for this reason also.
Argument	In reply to the rejoinder the respondents submitted that the show cause notice is legal because the Collector is the proper officer to modify the classification list and it could be so modified in view of the fresh facts being brought on record.
Argument	Although the modification in classification has to be prospective, the differential duty for past period arising out of the wrong classification can be demanded under Section 11A .
Argument	13.
Argument	Thereafter the petitioners, vide rejoinder dated 13-3-1990, submitted that on  complaint of Collector Customs and Central Excise, <ORG> had issued a show cause to the petitioner firm under Section 18(a)(1) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 (hereinafter called the Cosmetics Act ) read with the Rules framed thereunder asking the petitioner as to why permission to manufacture the drug be not withdrawn and why all the manufacturing licenses be not suspended or cancelled.
Fact	The copy of these notices are Annexure P-20A and Annexure P-21.
Fact	14.
Fact	The petitioner No.
Fact	1 obtained the report of two Experts appointed by the State Government under Rule 154(2) of the Cosmetics Rules, who were appointed by gazette notification dated 12-7-1985.
Fact	The Experts have opined that the quantity of base material sugar and the preservative and binding agent liquid glucose does not affect the therapeutic value of the tablet SWAD.
Fact	<ORG> and <ORG>, after enquiry passed an order discharging the show cause notice and held that the Drug is an Ayurvedic drug and the quantity o f the sugar as against the quantity of the active ingredients does not change the nature of the Ayurvedic medicine.
Fact	Annexures P-25 and P-26 are also filed which are the supplementary show cause notices dated 1-11-1989 and 31-1-1990.
Argument	15.
Argument	A reply to the rejoinder was filed by the respondents wherein the order of the Drug Controller dated 19-3-1990 was challenged by <ORG> being faulty, erroneous, biased and void abinitio.
Argument	It is also contended that because SWAD tablet is manufactured under the licence issued by the Drug Controller, does not prove that it deserves to be classified under Clause 30 of CET.
Argument	Actually for the classification, Excise Tariff has to be considered and not the Cosmetics Act .
Argument	In common parlance also the product is not known to have a curative power.
Argument	The earlier averments were also reiterated along with a submission that since liquid glucose is an ingredient even if it is said to be preservative, SWAD cannot be treated as Ayurvedic medicine as defined in Section 3(h)(1 ) of the Cosmetics Act.
Argument	16.
Argument	The petitioner gave further clarification on 9-4-1990, wherein it has been stated that Dr. <NAME> is an Expert under the Rules framed under the Cosmetics Act and the respondents have no jurisdiction to criticise the order of the Drug Controller.
Argument	The place of the sale of the medicine has also been clarified whereupon the respondent again stated that the Experts appointed under Rule 154(2) of the Rules framed under the Cosmetics Act and are only for the purposes of giving consultation before grant of licence and not thereafter.
Fact	The opinion is in general terms and the liquid glucose is one of the ingredients.
Fact	The petitioner again reiterated their earlier stand and said that an expert can give an opinion either before issue of licence or thereafter.
Fact	The opinion has been given after the test analysis report has been received.
Fact	According to expert opinion liquid glucose is not an active ingredient and therefore need not be mentioned in the label.
Fact	Even in respect of Allopathic drugs  under Rule 96 only the contents of active ingredients are to be mentioned on the label.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Director of Allopathic Services, under the Act or the Rules can not be held to be an Expert of Ayurvedic medicines.
Argument	The provisions of the various authorities stated by the petitioners and the respondents were also stated in the reply.
Argument	17.
Argument	During the course of the arguments both the learned counsel for the parties have argued in accordance with their pleadings as above, because the pleadings in view of the rejoinders and replies to the rejoinders actually had become argumentative.
Fact	Therefore, nothing specific was added during the oral arguments, except the synopsis filed before us.
Fact	In view of the aforesaid contention of both the parties the first and crucial point which arises for determination is whether the tablet SWAD can be classified as an Ayurvedic medicine or a confectionery.
Fact	For answering this question various other aspects and the provisions of the Act and the authorities cited by the parties have to be taken i nto consideration.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, before considering the respective arguments of the parties on this crucial issue, on merits, let us first examine whether the petitioner could approach this <ORG> on the show cause notice itself.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
Argument	According to the learned counsel for <ORG> this petition is not tenable because an alternative efficacious remedy by way of appeal is available to the present petitioners after decision on the show cause notice.
Argument	In support of his argument the petitioners have cited the judgment of <CITATION_23675> - AIR 1983 SC 603, wherein the Supreme <ORG> has held that when an efficacious alternative remedy is available the writ petition does not lie.
Argument	Same is the view taken in the case of <CITATION_96932> .
Argument	-AIR 1985 SC 330.
Argument	19.
Argument	On the other hand the learned counsel for the petitioners <NAME> has placed reliance on number of authorities, including the judgment of <CITATION_74936> - AIR 1987 SC 2186.
Argument	20.
Argument	We may refer to the latest Supreme <ORG> authority wherein it has been  held that although an alternative remedy may be available for challenging the impugned order by referring the question under the statutory provision to the appropriate authority, but it is well established that an alternative remedy is not an absolute bar to the maintainability of a writ petition.
Argument	When an authority has acted wholly without jurisdiction <ORG> should not refuse to exercise its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution on the ground of existence of an alternative remedy.
Argument	According to the petitioners the authorities cited by the <ORG> <ORG>'s case (supra) and <ORG> case (supra) do not oust the jurisdiction of <ORG> in case of availability of an alternative remedy.
Argument	The first case was the case of <CITATION_1590667> - AIR 1958 SC, 86, wherein it has been held that it is a well established principle that if there are existence of requisite grounds certiorari will lie although a right of appeal has been conferred by the Statute.
Argument	This rule requiring the  exhaustion of statutory remedies before the writ will be granted is a rule of policy, convenience and discretion rather than a rule of law.
Argument	In the same case it is also held that if an inferior <ORG> or <ORG> of first instance acts wholly without jurisdiction or patently in excess of jurisdiction or manifestly conducts proceedings before it in a manner contrary to rules of natural justice and accepted rules of procedure and which offends superior <ORG>'s sense of fair play, the Superior <ORG> may exercise its powers to issue prerogative writ of certiorari to correct the error of the <ORG> or <ORG> of first instance, even if an appeal to another inferior <ORG> or <ORG> was available.
Argument	This authority was referred to in <ORG> case (supra) and <ORG> case has been followed In <ORG>'s case (supra) and the same principle has been reiterated in Dr. <NAME>'s case (supra).
Argument	Now, according to the petitioners <ORG> have issued the notices chal lenged in the two petitions without any jurisdiction and without any basis, therefore, they can approach this Court directly.
Argument	21.
Argument	Another point pertaining to the limitation has also been raised and the jurisdiction of the Collector, Central Excise, under Section 11A of the Central Excise Act has been challenged on the ground that it was not a case of suppression, mis-statement of facts, fraud, collusion or contravention of the provisions of the Excise Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	As such the extended period of five years is inapplicable.
RatioOfTheDecision	For deciding both the aforesaid points pertaining to the jurisdiction of the show cause notice and availability of the limitation granted under Section 11A of the Central Excise Act, the fact of the case have to be examined and it has to be ascertained whether the petitioners by suppression of fact obtained the classification of their product and whether the product has been rightly classified by the authorities.
RatioOfTheDecision	The crucial point which falls for consideration is whether the product SWAD is an Ayu rvedic preparation or a confectionery in view of the facts and circumstances of the case.
RatioOfTheDecision	22.
RatioOfTheDecision	The basis of the challenge of the classification by <ORG> is that the product is not in accordance with the standard Ayurvedic work nor is supported by any clinical trials.
RatioOfTheDecision	The liquid glucose, which is added in the tablet is nowhere provided as an ingredient in the preparation of the Ayurvedic medicines.
RatioOfTheDecision	By adding the liquid glucose the product falls out of the ambit of the definition of Ayurvedic medicine stipulated in Section 3(h)(i) of the Cosmetics Act, 1940.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thirdly it has been stated that it does not prescribe the specific doses.
RatioOfTheDecision	The proportion of the Ayurvedic ingredients in the medicine is only 3 per cent, wheres the contents of sugar are 97 per cent.
RatioOfTheDecision	As such the curative effect, if any, of the medicine is lost and actually branding it as an Ayurvedic medicine is for the sole purpose of evading excise duty.
Argument	Strong reliance has been placed on the judgment of <ORG> of CEGAT in  the case of <CITATION_1610615> (42) E.L.T.
Argument	33, wherein in the similar facts the Bench of <ORG> has held that the Halls Icemint tablets are confectionery and not an Ayurvedic Medicine.
Argument	It has also been argued that the fact that the petitioner has obtained a license to manufacture the Ayurvedic medicine and the approval of the formula by <ORG> is of no avail.
Argument	The classification has to be done according to the Central Excise Tariff and not on the basis of the license issued by <ORG>.
Argument	23.
Argument	On the other hand it has been argued by the petitioner that the product SWAD was considered an Ayurvedic medicine on the basis of the Drug License No.
Precedent	25D/24/83.
Precedent	The formula was approved by <ORG> on 18-7-1986.
Precedent	The classification list was thereafter filed by the petitioner on 25-8-1986.
Precedent	It was provisionally approved on 15-10-1985 and final approval was given on 9-1-1988.
Argument	As per formula a mixture of sugar is prepared in manufacturing process.
Argument	Therefore, the respondent No.
Argument	4 gave a  notice on 26-11 -1987 to the petitioner stating that sugar syrup prepared during the course of manufacture is classifiable under sub-heading 1702.30.
Argument	A reply was given by the petitioner to this notice on 11-2-1987 that Sugar Syrup is not excisable.
Argument	Thereafter the respondent, vide letter dated 11-1-1988 asked for the details of production and value of sugar Syrup, vide Annexure P-12.
Argument	The petitioners, vide Annexure P-13 gave the quantity of the sugar consumed from August 1986 to November, 1987 and the Inspector Central Excise, Range 5, took samples of sugar syrup and SWAD tablet for test on 26-12-1988 and 6-2-1989.
Argument	The purchase invoices of raw material was also furnished, vide Ex.
Argument	P-l 8.
Argument	As such the petitioners have never refused to disclose any fact from the Authorities and acting upon approved classification list did not collect additional price from the customers on account of the excise duty now demanded.
Argument	24.
Argument	It is also the case of the petitioners that the Collector Customs & Central Excise had sent compla int to <ORG> about the suppression of facts by the petitioner and obtaining the license fraudulently, whereupon <ORG> had issued a show cause notice to the petitioner firm under Section 18(a)(i) of the Cosmetics Act on the ground that the drug is misbranded and show cause notice was issued under the Rules framed, why permission to manufacture the drug be not withdrawn and why the manufacturing license be not suspended or cancelled.
Argument	Along with the notice, a copy of the Drug Analysts report was also enclosed.
Fact	The petitioner No.
Fact	1 obtained the report of two experts appointed by the State Government under Rule 154(2) of the Cosmetics Act and they have opined that the quantity of base material sugar is the preservative and binding agent liquid glucose does not affect the therapeutic value of the tablet SWAD.
Fact	A report was filed along with the opinion of the Experts Annexure P-22 before <ORG>.
Precedent	<ORG>, after holding the enquiry, vide Annexure P-24 passed on order  in favour of the petitioner discharging the notice wherein it held that the medicine is an Ayurvedic preparation despite the presence of liquid glucose and the variation in the weight and the ratio of the glucose and the active ingredient would not change the nature of the medicine.
Precedent	The Central Excise Officers had no authority to challenge or criticise the order of the Drug Controller, which is <ORG> and an Expert competent to give a finding on the nature of a drug for which a license for manufacture has been issued.
Precedent	25.
Precedent	In the light of the above arguments, let us first see the relevant judgments relied on the points raised before us.
Precedent	In the case of <CITATION_1239734> .
Precedent	(supra) <ORG>, New Delhi, has held that for any formulation to be considered as Ayurvedic medicine, the same should be either recognised so in a standard Ayurvedic work or should be so proved by clinical trials or should be recognised so by an authority like <ORG>.
Argument	The appellant's case for considering the goo ds described as Halls Icemint tablets, as medicine is only based on one fact that active ingredients, namely Pudina and Eucalyptus oil are Ayurvedic in nature and these have medicinal properties.
RulingByLowerCourt	The certificate given by Dr. <NAME> is not based on first hand information and besides, being a Professor of Surgery of <ORG>, he cannot be considered as a specialist in the field of medicine.
RulingByLowerCourt	The certificate, which could be taken note of is the one issued by the competent authority, which, in the instant case could only be the <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	Therefore, the case of the appellant that the product is a medicine is not established and, therefore, the <ORG> held the product as confectionery.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the aforesaid judgment the certificate of the socalled Expert Dr. <NAME> was considered and it was found that the information was based on the opinion of Dr. <NAME>, but it was not clear before the <ORG> as to who this Dr. <NAME> is and what information is supplied to Dr. <NAME>.
Fact	As such the certificate is not based on the first han d information.
Fact	It is also not shown whether the certificate is based on the clinical trials.
Fact	The manufacturer also was not in a position to give any further details.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, after considering all the facts and circumstances of the case and the contents of the product the <ORG> was of the view that the above said product could not be treated as an Ayurvedic medicine but can be classified as a sugar confectionery as it has a cooling and soothing effect on the throat as described in the literature.
RatioOfTheDecision	26.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, in respect of classification of goods it has been the consistent view that the general principle of interpretation of tariff entries occurring in a Taxing Statute is a commercial nomenclature and understanding between persons in the trade.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it is also a settled legal position that the said doctrine of commercial nomenclature and trade understanding should be departed from in a case where the statutory content in which the tariff entry appears, requires such a departure.
RatioOfTheDecision	As such in cases where the ap plication of commercial meaning or trade nomenclature runs counter to the statutory context in which the said word was used then the said principle of interpretation should not be applied.
RatioOfTheDecision	Trade meaning or commercial nomenclature would be applicable if a particular product description occurs by itself in a tariff entry and there is no conflict between the tariff entry and any other entry requiring to reconcile and harmonise that tariff entry with any other entry.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> has reiterated the aforesaid view in a recent case of <CITATION_1107029> - 1990 (47) E.L.T.
RulingByLowerCourt	161.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the same judgment <ORG> has held that although it is the settled position of law that the words used in Taxing Statute have to be understood in the common parlance or commercial parlance but such a trade understanding or commercial nomenclature can be given only in cases where the word in the Tariff Entry has not been used in a scientific or technical sense and where there is no conflict between the words used in the Tarif f Entry and any other entry in the Tariff Schedule.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the aforesaid case <ORG> took into consideration the various entry items and held that the calcareous stone as mentioned in ITC Schedule has to be taken in scientific and technical sense as therein the said stone has been described as of an apparent specific gravity of 2.5 or more.
Precedent	Therefore, the word 'marble' has to be interpreted in the scientific or technical sense and not in the sense commercially understood or as meant in the trade parlance.
Precedent	27.
Precedent	A Division Bench of <ORG> in <CITATION_1672252> (6) E.L.T.
Precedent	598 (M.P.)
Precedent	: 1980 M.P.L.J.
Argument	479, has sought the aid of Section 3(b) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act to consider the classification under the Central Excise Tariff.
Argument	To ascertain whether a particular product is a medical preparation or not on the basis of the definition of 'drug' in Section 3(b) of the Cosmetics Act it was held that the glucose repacked by the petitioner could not be taxed under Item No.
Precedent	14E of the Tariff.
Precedent	28.
Precedent	<ORG> in the case of <CITATION_352610> (36) E.L.T.
Precedent	369A, has held that although it is well settled that generally, while interpreting the fiscal statutes, the scientific meaning of a product is not relevant but one has to consider its popular understanding or its understanding in the commerce or in the trade.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it is obvious that this trade understanding should be the understanding of those who are actually dealing with that particular product or goods.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Drugs and Cosmetics Act is a comprehensive piece of legislation which deals with drugs and provides not only for the standards of quality, misbranded and adulterated drugs but also for the safeguards for the manufacture, sale and distribution of drugs as well as cosmetics.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act makes it abundantly clear that only those drugs which are manufactured under a valid licence issued under the Act and in compliance with its provisions can be lawfully sold, exhibited for sale or distributed.
RatioOfTheDecision	After considering the various aspects of the Act the  Court was of the view that the definition of 'drug' given in the said Act is most relevant for determining its meaning in the trade.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the true and real meaning which a drug has in the trade or in commerce is the meaning given to it in the Drugs and Cosmetics Act .
RatioOfTheDecision	In this case <ORG> has also taken the view that the order of the Assessment Officer has to stand or fall on its own grounds and cannot be supplemented by affidavits.
RatioOfTheDecision	29.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now, in the light of the aforesaid authorities it has to be seen as to how the medicine in question i.e.
RatioOfTheDecision	SWAD is known in the common parlance or in commercial use.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is not an iota of evidence to show that this product is sold as a confectionery and is commonly used as a confectionery by the consumers.
RatioOfTheDecision	In Tariff Entry 3003.30 the medicaments including those in Ayurvedic, Unani, Sidh and Homoeopathy system have been mentioned as the goods falling within that entry.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, for ascertaining whether a product is an Ayurvedic product or not the facts on  the record have to be perused and in the light of the decisions of <ORG> in <NAME> case (supra), <ORG> case (supra) and the case of <ORG> (supra), this <ORG> has to look to the scientific and technical aspect of the product with the aid of the Cosmetics Act , 1940.
RatioOfTheDecision	30.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now it is not indispute that the petitioners in both the petitions are manufacturing SWAD tablets and the ingredients have been taken from the Ayurvedic text books with certain modifications evolving a formula of their own.
Fact	The petitioners have considered the commentaries of the scholars Dr. <NAME> and Dr. <NAME>.
Fact	The Hindi translation of the original books is <NAME> and another commentary is by <NAME> of <ORG>, Lucknow.
Fact	The formula so prepared with the aid of the aforesaid text books was patented and an application to <ORG> for obtaining the license for manufacture of  this drug was made, which was granted to them.
Fact	The classification list was filed before <ORG> which was provisionally approved and later on finally approved.
Fact	Now, the objection of <ORG> is that firstly the liquid glucose, which is used in the medicine, is not an Ayurvedic ingredient and nowhere mentioned in the Ayurvedic book of medicines and the contents of the so-called curative medicines is only 3 per cent whereas the percentage of glucose 97 per cent.
Fact	It has further been stated that there is deviation in the weight proportion of the active ingredients of the product and the liquid glucose has taken the product out of the purview of medicine.
Fact	There is absence of dosage in the wrapper.
Fact	However, it is manifest that the classification submitted by the petitioner was approved by <ORG> on the strength of the license issued by the Drug Controller of M.P.
Fact	who has given the license after his due satisfaction that the product is an Ayurvedic produ ct.  31.
Fact	In the instant case a further development has taken place wherein <ORG> had made a complaint to the Drug Controller that the license has been wrongly issued on the grounds which have been enumerated in the show cause notice.
Fact	Therefore, a show cause notice was issued under Section 18(a)(o) of the Cosmetics Act and the Rules by the Drug Controller to the petitioner and a copy of the test laboratory report was also sent with the show cause notice.
Fact	In the reply the petitioners submitted that the product SWAD is for digestion it contains ingredients commonly used for creating appetite and help in digestion.
Fact	To make it tasty and eatable like other medicine, the manufacturers used the sugar base.
Fact	The liquid glucose is used as preservative and binding agent like other medicines just to preserve the properties of the drug and in general practise there is no need to mention about the preservatives and binding agents.
Fact	In the labels of other products of the same brand which are treated a s drugs, the binding agent and preservative is not mentioned.
Fact	The opinion of two experts was obtained and was also submitted along with the reply.
Fact	The first opinion is by the Divisional Officer, <ORG>, who is declared as an Expert and according to him the medicine used in the product is Ayurvedic medicines.
Fact	According to the opinion the addition of and proportion of sugar and liquid glucose would not change the quality of the active agents in the product.
Precedent	32.
Fact	The Divisional Director, <NAME>, has been declared as an Expert by <ORG>, vide Gazette Notification dated 20th April, 1985 in exercise of the powers under Rule 154(2) of the Drug and Cosmetic Rules, 1945 and the other expert Dr. <NAME> has also been so declared as an Expert.
Fact	According to Dr. <NAME> also liquid glucose is used in Ayurvedic medicines as preservative material and binding agent and the increase or decrease in the quantity of the binding agent or preservative does not change the nature of  the medicine.
Fact	In both the Expert opinions it has been said that the product is a medicine containing the Ayurvedic properties.
Precedent	33.
Fact	<ORG>, M.P.
Fact	vide Annexure P-24 has dropped the notice and in a detailed order has considered the grievance of the Collector of Customs and Excise, Indore whereupon a sample of the drug was drawn by the Drug Inspector, Indore and analysed by the Government Analyst Bhopal.
Fact	This report dated 13-6-1989 has not given any opinion that the Drug is of a standard quality or not, but the drug contains liquid glucose without label declaration.
Fact	However, <ORG> agreed with the contention of the petitioner that the liquid glucose is a preservative in Ayurvedic as well in Allopathic drugs.
Fact	A letter of the Director Indigenous System of Medicines Dr. <NAME>, dated 23-12-1989 was also produced, which says that liquid glucose is commonly used as preservative and binding agent and its presence has no effect on the active ingredient and the further  opinion of the Expert that despite the presence of liquid glucose the character of the drug shall remain Ayurvedic, has also been considered by the Drug Controller.
Argument	Finding the aforesaid opinion and the argument sound and comparing the various ingredients in Hall's and Vicks tablets and their preparation as compared to SWAD which are licenced as Ayurvedic medicines by the State of Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, <ORG>, Bhopal discharged the notice against the petitioner and held that the product is an Ayurvedic product.
Argument	As such the fact that the Drug Controller, agreeing with the opinion of the two Experts, has reiterated its earlier finding while issuing the licence of manufacture that the product SWAD is an Ayurvedic product, supports the case of the petitioner and the aforesaid fact cannot be brushed aside simply because the assessment has to be made independently in accordance with the Central Tariff.
Argument	34.
Argument	It is true that the classification of the goods has to be  made according to <ORG> Tariff.
RatioOfTheDecision	But as discussed above <ORG> Tariff does not specifically define the product, but speaks of the Ayurvedic preparation.
RatioOfTheDecision	As such as held by <ORG>, <ORG> and <ORG> in the aforementioned cases the <ORG> has to resort to the provisions of the Cosmetics Act for ascertaining the nature of the product and when the experts in the field is available.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot be brushed aside lightly only because there is an averment that it is a confectionery.
RatioOfTheDecision	The deviations in the preparation as pointed out by <ORG> were dealt with and considered by <ORG>, <ORG> and there is no contrary opinion of any Ayurvedic Expert to hold that the product is simply a confectionery and not a Ayurvedic product.
RatioOfTheDecision	Even in <ORG> case (supra) decided by the <ORG>, on which much reliance is placed by the learned counsel for <ORG>, the <ORG> has considered  the Expert opinion and thereafter gave a finding that the expert opinion is of no avail to the manufacture in that case because the opinion of Dr. <NAME> was a second hand information and the qualifications of Dr. <NAME> were also not known to ascertain whether he was an Expert or not, coupled with the fact that there was no clinical test of the product.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the instant case the clinical test was made of the aforesaid product and after considering the result of the clinical test and the opinion of the Experts the finding of the product being an Ayurvedic product has been given.
RatioOfTheDecision	It has already been held above that there is no evidence on record that in common parlance, the product is known as a confectionery.
Precedent	Therefore, the scientific and technical meaning of the product are most relevant for ascertaining whether a product is an Ayurvedic product or a confectionery.
Precedent	35.
Argument	<ORG>, after filing of the report of the Director.
Argument	<ORG>, in favour of the petitioner discharging the notice issue d to them have filed a rejoinder wherein it has been stated that the opinion of the Director is erroneous and should not be acted upon.
RatioOfTheDecision	We fail to understand as to how the opinion of the Experts and that of the Drug Controller can be held to be erroneous in absence of any contrary opinion of Experts being on record.
RatioOfTheDecision	Much emphasis has been laid that according to the definition of Ayurvedic preparation there is a clear interdict on the use of any ingredient than the one shown in the text and that is why the word 'only' has been used in the definition.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is manifest that the word 'only' has been used in respect of the ingredients of the product and the preservative items in a particular product cannot be treated as active ingredients.
RatioOfTheDecision	Consequently we hold that the product of the petitioner is an Ayurvedic preparation and has rightly been classified by the Assistant Collector under Item 3003.30 of the Central Excise Tariff.
RatioOfTheDecision	36.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards the tenability of the petition it has been strenuously argued that the pe tition is premature.
RatioOfTheDecision	But as discussed above the law on the point is practically settled that the <ORG> should not interfere in a matter at the stage on show cause notice as a general rule.
RatioOfTheDecision	But can always interfere when the notice is without jurisdiction, arbitrary or illegal.
RatioOfTheDecision	About invoking of the provisions of Section 11A also, it is the settled principle that the provisions of Section 11A are available to the authorities provided the assessee has been guilty of misrepresentation, fraud or suppression of fact etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the aforesaid discussion we do not find it either a case of fraud, misrepresentation or suppression of fact.
RulingByLowerCourt	The classification was done on the basis of the license issued by <ORG> and he has found that the product is an Ayurvedic product even after holding an enquiry on a show cause notice.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> have also made enquiries as discussed above before the classification.
RulingByLowerCourt	Therefore, the extended period of five years of limitation under  Section 11A is not available to the Collector, <ORG> and <ORG>.
RulingByLowerCourt	The notice Annexure P-19 in M.P.
RulingByLowerCourt	No.
RulingByLowerCourt	1297 of 1989, is therefore, without jurisdiction and as such this Court could very well entertain a petition in a case where the notice is without jurisdiction.
RulingByLowerCourt	The notice Annexure P-19 is, therefore, quashed.
RatioOfTheDecision	The notices Ex.
RatioOfTheDecision	P-6, P-7 and P-8 issued by the authorities are as a sequal of the notice issued in M.P.
RatioOfTheDecision	No.
RatioOfTheDecision	1297 of 1989 and in view of the finding given by us that the product is an Ayurvedic medicine, these notices also cannot be allowed to stand which were issued during the pendency of the first petition.
RulingByLowerCourt	Accordingly these notices also deserve to be quashed and are accordingly quashed.
RulingByLowerCourt	37.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the result both the petitions M.P.
RulingByLowerCourt	No.
RulingByLowerCourt	1297 of 1989 and M.P.
RulingByLowerCourt	No.
RulingByLowerCourt	682 of 1991 are allowed.
RulingByLowerCourt	The notices issued in the aforesaid petitions are quashed.
RulingByLowerCourt	There shall be no order as to costs.
