Fact	JUDGMENT <NAME>, J.
Fact	1.
Fact	A common question of law as to whether it is open to an insurance company to challenge the quantum of compensation awarded by <ORG> in an appeal filed in <ORG> arises in the three appeals which are under consideration by us.
RulingByLowerCourt	The matter was referred to <ORG> because when one appeal, i.e., Civil Misc.
RulingByLowerCourt	First Appeal No.
RulingByLowerCourt	80 of 1977, came up for disposal before <ORG> of this court, comprising <NAME>, Chief Justice and <NAME>, their Lordships were of the opinion that there was some divergence of opinion on this subject in the different <ORG> in the country and, consequently, they made the following order of reference on October 27, 1979.  "
Fact	The point sought to be raised in this appeal relates to the quantum of compensation awarded by <ORG> in favour of the respondents.
Argument	A preliminary objection has been raised on behalf of the respondents that it is not open to the appellant to challenge th e quantum of compensation awarded by the <ORG>.
Argument	The argument is founded on the language employed in Section 96(2) and Sections 110C and 110D of the Motor Vehicles Act.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> has sought to meet this point by enunciating the view that it is open to the insurer to challenge the very quantum of compensation.
Argument	Sections 96(2) read with Sections 110C and 110D do not operate as a bar to the raising of such a plea in the appeal.
RatioOfTheDecision	It'seems that there is divergence of opinion among <ORG> on the question of law debated before us.
RatioOfTheDecision	<CITATION_69966> , AIR 1977 All 330 ;  ACJ 252, <CITATION_1753520> , AIR 1971 Mys 207 and <CITATION_1162044> , AIR 1969 MP 190;  ACJ 164, support the contention of the respondent, whereas <CITATION_149357>  MACJ 103;  ACJ 101, have laid down the contrary view.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are given to understand that there is a recent judgment of this court rendered in Civil Misc.
Precedent	First Appeal No.
Precedent	15 of l978, ( <CITATION_569612> ) dealing with the point at issue.
Precedent	In view of the divergence of opi nion expressed by <ORG> on this subject and in view of the recent judgment of this court, it would be appropriate to refer the case to <ORG>.
Precedent	Accordingly the case is referred to <ORG> for an authoritative pronouncement.
Precedent	The date and the venue will be communicated to the counsel for the parties. "
Precedent	2.
Precedent	In the other two appeals also, this question was involved and they were also directed to be heard along with Civil Miscellaneous First Appeal No.
Precedent	80 of 1977.
Precedent	3.
Precedent	The fact in all the three appeals are somewhat different and I propose to first deal with the legal question and then deal with each of the three appeals on merits.
Argument	4.
Argument	At the outset, Lwould like to point out, with due respect to the referring <ORG>, that in all the judgments noticed in the order of reference, there is no divergence of opinion and all the judgments noticed therein lay down the proposition that it is not open to an insurer to question an award of the <ORG> on the question of quantum only except on the gr ounds contained in Section 96(2) of the M.V.
Argument	Act.
Argument	This position is conceded by Mr. <NAME> also but his argument is that Section 96(2) of the Act is not exhaustive and that there are no limitations prescribed by Section 110D of the Act, of the nature and character of Section 96(2) of the Act, and, therefore, an insurer has a right to challenge an award of the <ORG> on all the grounds, including the challenge to the quantum of compensation, in an appeal in <ORG>.
Statute	Before proceeding to examine these submissions, it would be advantageous to notice some of the relevant provisions of the Act.  "
Statute	Section 96 .
Statute	Duty of insurers to satisfy judgments against persons insured in respect of third party risks.--(1) If, after a certificate of insurance has been issued under Sub-section (4) of Section 95 in favour of the person by whom a policy has been effected, judgment in respect of any such liability as is required to be covered by a policy under Clause (b) of Sub-section (1) of Section 95 (being a liability co vered by the terms of the policy) is obtained against any person insured by the policy, then, notwithstanding that the insurer may be entitled to avoid or cancel or may have avoided or cancelled the policy, the insurer shall, subject to the provisions of this section, pay, to the person entitled to the benefit of the decree any sum not exceeding the sum assured payable thereunder, as if he were the judgment-debtor, in respect of the liability, together with any amount payable in respect of costs and any sum payable in respect of interest on that sum by virtue of any enactment relating to interest on judgments.
Statute	(2) No sum shall be payable by an insurer under Sub-section (1) in respect of any judgment unless before or after the commencement of the proceedings in which the judgment is given the insurer had notice through the court of the bringing of the procedings, or in respect of any judgment so long as execution is stayed thereon pending an appeal; and an insurer to whom notice of the bringing of any such pr oceeding is so given shall be entitled to be made a party thereto and to defend the action on any of the following grounds, namely:--  (a) that the policy was cancelled by mutual consent or by virtue of any provision contained therein before the accident giving rise to the liability, and that either the certificate of insurance was surrendered to the insurer or that the person to whom the certificate was issued has made an affidavit stating that the certificate has been lost or destroyed, or that either before or not later than fourteen days after the happening of the accident the insurer has commenced proceedings for cancellation of the certificate after compliance with the provisions of Section 105 ; or  (b) that there was been a breach of a specified condition of the policy, being one of the following conditions, namely :--  (i) a condition excluding the use of the vehicle --  (a) for hire or reward, where the vehicle is on the date of the contract of insurance a vehicle not covered by a permit to ply for  hire or reward, or  (b) for organised racing and speed testing, or  (c) for a purpose not allowed by the permit under which the vehicle is used, where the vehicle is a public service vehicle or a goods vehicle, or  (d) without side-car being attached, where the vehicle is a motor cycle ; or  (ii) a condition excluding driving by a named person or persons or by any person who is not duly licensed, or by any person who has been disqualified for holding or obtaining a driving licence during the period of "  disqualification ; or  (iii) a condition excluding liability for injury caused or contributed to by conditions of war, civil war, riot or civil commotion ; or  (c) that the policy is void on the ground that it was obtained by the non-disclosure of a material fact or by a representation of fact which was false in some material particular.
Statute	(2A) Where any such judgment as is referred to in Sub-section (1) is obtained from a court in the State of Jammu and Kashmir or in a reciprocating country and in the case of  a foreign judgment is, by virtue of the provisions of Section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, conclusive as to any matter adjudicated upon by it, the insurer (being an insurer registered under the Insurance Act , 1938, and whether or not he is registered under the corresponding law of the reciprocating country) shall be liable to the person entitled to the benefit of the decree in the manner and to the extent specified in Sub-section (1), as if the judgment were given by a court in India:  Provided that no sum shall be payable by the insurer in respect of any such judgment unless, before or after the commencement of the pro ceedings in which the judgment is given, the insurer had notice through the court concerned of the bringing of the proceedings and the insurer to whom notice is so given is entitled under the corresponding law of the State of Jammu and Kashmir or the reciprocating country, to be made a party to the proceedings and to defend the action on grounds similar to those specified in Sub- section (2).
Statute	(3) Where a certificate of insurance has been issued under Sub-section (4) of Section 95 to the person by whom a policy has been effected, so much of the policy as purports to restrict the insurance of the persons insured thereby by reference to any conditions other than those in Clause (b) of Sub-section (2) shall, as respects such liabilities as are required to be covered by a policy under Clause (b) of Sub-section (1) of Section 95 , be of no effect:  Provided that any sum paid by the insurer in or towards the discharge of any liability of any person which is covered by the policy by virtue only of this sub-section shall be recoverable by the insurer from that person.
Statute	(4) If the amount which an insurer becomes liable under this section to pay in respect of a liability incurred by a person insured by a policy exceeds the amount for which the insurer would apart from the provisions of this section be liable under the policy in respect of that liability, the insurer shall be entitled to recover  the excess from that person.
Statute	(5) In this section the expressions "material fact" and "material particular " mean, respectively, a fact or particular of such a nature as to influence the judgment of a prudent insurer in determining whether he will take the risk, and, if so, at what premium and on what conditions, and the expression "liability covered by the terms of the policy" means a liability which is covered by the policy or which would be so covered but for the fact that the insurer is entitled to avoid or cancel or has avoided or cancelled the policy.
Statute	(6) No insurer to whom the notice referred to in Sub-section (2) or sub-Section (2A) has been given shall be entitled to avoid his liability to any person entitled to the benefit of any such judgment as is referred to in Sub-section (1) or Sub-section (2A) otherwise than in the manner provided for in Sub-section (2) or in the corresponding law of the State of Jammu and Kashmir or of the reciprocating country, as the case may be."
Statute	Section 110B lays down  :  " On receipt of an application for compensation made under section 110A <ORG> shall, after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard, hold an enquiry into the claim and may make an award determining the amount of compensation which appears to it to be just and specifying the person or persons to whom compensation shall be paid; and in making the award <ORG> shall specify the amount which shall be paid by the insurer."
Statute	Section 110C provides:  " Procedure and powers of Claims Tribunals.--(1) In holding any inquiry under Section 110B , <ORG> may, subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, follow such summary procedure as it thinks fit.
Statute	(2) <ORG> shall have all the powers of <ORG> for the purpose of taking evidence on oath and of enforcing the attendance of witnesses and of compelling the discovery and production of documents and material objects and for such other purposes as may be prescribed ; and <ORG> shall b e deemed to be <ORG> for all the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Vof 1898).
Statute	(2A) Where in the course of any inquiry, <ORG> is satisfied that--  (i) there is collusion between the person making the claim and the person against whom the claim is made, or  (ii) the person against whom the claim is made has failed to contest the claim, it may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, direct that the insurer who may be liable in respect of such claim, shall be impleaded as a party to the proceeding and the insurer so impleaded shall thereupon have the right to contest the claim on all or any of the grounds that are available to the person against whom the claim has been made.
Statute	(3) Subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, <ORG> may, for the purpose of adjudicating upon any claim for compensation, choose one or more persons possessing special knowledge of any matter relevant to the inquiry to assist it in holding  the inquiry."
Statute	"110D.
Statute	Appeals.--(1) Subject to the provisions of Sub-section (2), any person aggrieved by an award of <ORG> may, within ninety days from the date of the award, prefer an appeal to <ORG>:  Provided that <ORG> may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of ninety days if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from preferring the appeal in time.
Statute	(2) No appeal shall lie against any award of <ORG>, if the amount in dispute in the appeal is less than two thousand rupees."
Statute	5.
Statute	Thus, Section 96 of the Act enables the claimant, the assured and the insurer, interested in any litigation arising out of a motor vehicle accident to be made parties to the claim petition.
Statute	The section maintains the respective rights and liabilities of one qua the other.
Statute	Whereas Sub-section (1) of Section 96 is only a declaratory provision; it deems an insurer to be a judgment-debtor when a decree is passed against an insured under certain  circumstances rendering him liable to a third party, Sub-section (2) of this section lays down that an insurer, to whom notice of the proceeding is given, would be entitled to be made a party thereto and to defend the action on any of the grounds specified in various clauses of the sub-section.
Statute	Section 110C (2A) provides that in a case where <ORG> is satisfied that there is collusion between the insured and the claimant it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, direct that the insurer, who may ultimately be found liable in respect of the claim, if not already a party, be impleaded as a party to the proceedings and the insurer so impleaded shall have the right to resist the claim on all or any of the grounds which are available to an insured.
Statute	Section 110D provides that an appeal may be filed in <ORG> against an award of the <ORG> if the amount in dispute in the appeal is not less than two thousand rupees.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such an appeal may be filed within 90 days from the date of the award, although the H <ORG> can, if satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause to file the appeal in time, condone the delay.
RatioOfTheDecision	6.
RatioOfTheDecision	From a plain reading of Section 96 it at once emerges that an insurer apart from the rights under the statute has no right, to be impleaded as a party to a petition for compensation and once impleaded as a party, it can exercise only those rights which are provided to it by the statute and it is Section 96(2) which details the grounds which are available to an insurer.
RatioOfTheDecision	A reference to Sub-section (6) of Section 96 which provides that no insurer shall be entitled to avoid his liability except in the manner provided for in Sub-section (2) also support this view.
Argument	Dealing with this aspect of the law, their Lordships of <ORG> in <CITATION_135147>  29 Comp Cas (Ins) 60, 64; AIR 1959 SC 1331, 1333 opined as follows:  " To start with it is necessary to remember that apart from the statute an insurer has no right to be made a party to the action by the injured person against th e insured causing the injury.
Argument	Sub-section (2) of Section 96 , however, gives him the right to be made a party to the suit and to defend it.
RatioOfTheDecision	The right, therefore, is created by statute and its content necessarily depends on the provisions of the statute.
RatioOfTheDecision	The question then really is, what are the defences that Sub-section (2) makes available to an insurer ?
RatioOfTheDecision	That clearly is a question of interpretation of the sub-section.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now the language of Sub-section (2) seems to us to be perfectly plain and to admit of no doubt or confusion.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is that an insurer to whom the requisite notice of the action has been given ' shall be entitled to be made a party thereto and to defend the action on any of the following grounds, namely,' after which comes an enumeration of the grounds.
RatioOfTheDecision	It would follow that an insurer is entitled to defend on any of the grounds enumerated and no others.
RatioOfTheDecision	If it were not so, then of course no grounds need have been enumerated.
RatioOfTheDecision	When the grounds of defence have been specified, they cannot be added to.
RatioOfTheDecision	To do that would be adding words to the statute.
RatioOfTheDecision	Sub-section (6) also indicates clearly how Sub-section (2) should be read.
RatioOfTheDecision	It says that no insurer to whom the notice of the action has been given shall be entitled to avoid his liability under Sub-section (1) 'otherwise than in the manner provided for in Sub-section (2)'.
RatioOfTheDecision	Now the only manner of avoiding liability provided for in Sub-section (2) is by successfully raising any of the defences therein mentioned.
RatioOfTheDecision	It comes then to this that the insurer cannot avoid his liability except by establishing such defences.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, Sub-section (6) clearly contemplates that he cannot take any defence not mentioned in Sub-section (2).
Precedent	If he could, then he would have been in a position to avoid his liability in a manner other than that provided for in subjection (2).
Precedent	That is prohibited by Sub-section (6).
Precedent	We, therefore, think that Sub-section (2) clearly provides that an insurer made a defendant to the action is not entitled to take any defence which is not specified in  it."
Precedent	7.
Precedent	Though, in the <ORG> judgment, the question involved directly was not as to what defences are available to an insurer, in an appeal against an award, because that case arose at a stage before any award was made, yet the guidelines given in the judgment and the interpretation placed on Section 96 is helpful.
Precedent	The following observations of the <ORG>, throw a flood of light on the question which is before this Bench (p. 1335 of AIR 1959 and p. 66 of 29 Comp Cas (Ins.
Precedent	)):  " The statute has no doubt created a liability in the insurer to the injured person but the statute has also expressly confined the right to avoid that liability to certain grounds specified in it.
Precedent	It is not for us to add to those grounds and, therefore, to the statute for reasons of hardship.
Precedent	We are furthermore not convinced that the statute causes any hardship.
Precedent	First, the insurer has the right, provided he has reserved it by the policy, to defend the action in the name of the assured and if he does so, all defences open  to the assured can then be urged by him and there is no other defence that he claims to be entitled to urge.
Precedent	He can thus avoid all hardship, if any, by providing for a right to defend the action in the name of the assured and this he has full liberty to do."
Precedent	8.
Precedent	Apart from the judgment of <ORG>, this precise question has been the subject-matter of debate before various <ORG> in the country.
Precedent	Reference to some of those judgments, before considering the validity of the submission of the learned counsel for the insurance company before us, would be helpful.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	In <NAME> v. <NAME> [1966] ACJ 101, <ORG> held that an insurer cannot question the quantum of compensation awarded by a <ORG> in an appeal, except on the defence available to it under Section 96(2) of the Act.
Precedent	The court repelled the argument raised on behalf of the insurance company that since it was a party to the action before the <ORG>, it was entitled to challenge the award on all grounds available at l aw, including the grounds on which the insured himself could have relied.
Precedent	10.
Precedent	In <ORG> v. <NAME> [1969] ACJ 60, <ORG> had also an occasion to consider this question in some depth.
Precedent	After noticing a number of authorities the court opined ;  " An insurance company is not entitled to raise any defence other than the defences enlisted in Section 96(2) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939.
Precedent	It cannot, therefore, be permitted to dispute the quantum of compensation awarded by <ORG>.
Precedent	It makes no difference whether the proceedings for the recovery of compensation were by way of a suit in a civil court, before the Amendment Act of 1956, or by way of an application in <ORG>, after the said amendment.
Precedent	It also makes no difference whether the insurer entered appearance and filed his written statement after a notice was issued to him under the provisions of Section 96(1) of the said Act or whether he has impleaded as a party at the very incepti on."
Precedent	11.
Precedent	A Division Bench of <ORG> in <CITATION_1162044>  ACJ 164; AIR 1970 MP 190 held that in an appeal under Section 110 filed by an insurance company, where the insured had not filed any appeal or applied for being transposed as an appellant, the appellant could be permitted to raise only those defences which are prescribed by Section 96(2) of the Act and no other defence.
Precedent	<CITATION_1281733>  ACJ 86; AIR 1971 MP 5 ;  42 Comp Cas 102 a Full Bench of <ORG> laid down that Section 96(2) limits the defences available to the insurer, where the insured is held liable to pay compensation.
Precedent	However, the insurer can in the name of the insured raise every such defence as an insured can raise, including the absence of negligence, provided it has reserved that right by policy of insurance.
Precedent	12.
Precedent	This question also came up for consideration before Mr. Justice <NAME> (as his Lordship then was) in <CITATION_146239523>  ACJ 219 (<NAME>) and his Lordship held that an insurer wa s entitled to take up only those defences as are specified in Section 96(2) of the Act and that it could not question the award of the <ORG> on any other grounds.
Precedent	13.
Precedent	In <ORG> v. <NAME> [1972] ACJ 261, it was opined that apart from the defences which came within the scope of Section 96(2) of the Act, an insurer could not jtake up any other defence, either in the original claim petition or in an appeal arising from an award given by the <ORG>.
Precedent	14.
Precedent	<CITATION_1805239>  ACJ 420 (Mys); AIR 1973 Mys.
Precedent	107, itwasopined (at p. 107 of AIR 1973 Mys):  "...it is clear that insurer can urge all the defences open to the insured, only when the insurer defends the action in the name of the insured.
RatioOfTheDecision	But, in the present case, it has not been shown that before the <ORG>, the appellant defended the action in the name of the insured.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, the insured (the owner of the lorry) and the driver of the lorry who were respondents 1 and 2 before the <ORG>, had filed their o bjections and the appellant had filed a separate statement of objections.
Precedent	Unless the appellant had defended before the <ORG>, the action in the name of the insured, the only defences which it (the appellant) could urge before the <ORG> and which it can urge in this appeal are those specified in Clauses (a) to (c) of Sub-section (2) of Section 96 of the Act."
Precedent	15.
Precedent	Similar view was also expressed by a Single Judge of <ORG> in <NAME> v. <NAME> [1973] ACJ 229 and by <ORG> in <CITATION_413918>  ACJ 18.
Precedent	<ORG> in <CITATION_110140082>  ACJ 159 after holding that an insurance company is not allowed any plea outside the scope of the pleas specified in Section 96(2) , added that in case the insurance company has reserved a right in the policy itself to defend an action in the name of the insured, it could raise all such pleas as may be open to an insured both at the trial of the petition as well as in an appeal against the award.
Precedent	16.
Precedent	The matter came u p for consideration before a Full Bench of the Orissa High Court in <CITATION_368132> , AIR 1976 Orissa 175 ;  ACJ 239.
Precedent	In that case, though the insured as well as the insurer had contested the claim before <ORG>, after the award, an appeal was filed only by the insurance company and not by the insured.
Precedent	In that appeal both the quantum of compensation as also the liability of the insured on grounds of negligence were challenged by the insurance company.
Precedent	<ORG>, after a review of a catena of authorities, came to the conclusion that the insurance company could defend an action only on the grounds specified in Section 96(2) of the Act and not on other grounds unless it had obtained leave of <ORG> under Section 110C(2A) of the Act.
Precedent	The mere non-filing of the appeal by the insured, however, was not considered enough for allowing the insurance company to challenge the award on the grounds other than those specified in Section 96(2) of the Act.
Precedent	The following observations of the Ful l Bench are significant (at p. 191 of AIR 1976 <NAME>):  " As the facts of this case show, the insured had entered contest and there is no reason to hold in the absence of any allegation, and something more, that the insured has been colluding with the claimant.
Precedent	Leave of the <ORG> had admittedly not been taken under Section 110C(2A) of the Act.
Precedent	There exists a clause in the policy bond authorising the insurer to defend in the name of the insured.
Precedent	As we have already noted, the insured and the insurer simultaneously wanted to defend, the insured defending in his own name and the insurer in its own name.
Precedent	The term in the policy bond did not authorise such defence by the insurer.
Precedent	In the instant case, therefore, to the insurer the restriction under Section 96(2) of the Act applies and he could not travel beyond the restriction imposed by the statute either before the <ORG> or in appeal before this court.
Precedent	None of the grounds in the memorandum of appeal appertains to a defence raised within Section 96(2) of the  Act and what is being mainly challenged is the quantum and liability on a ground not covered by Section 96(2) of the Act.
Precedent	On these grounds the insurer was not entitled to contest the claim for the award.
Precedent	The appeal filed on its behalf, therefore, is not maintainable."
Precedent	17.
Precedent	Similar view was reiterated in <ORG> (now <ORG>) v. <NAME> [1977] ACJ 283.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	A Division Bench of <ORG> in <CITATION_949985>  ACJ 137 opined as follows:  "That apart Section 110C (Sub-section (2A)) provides that where in the course of any inquiry, <ORG> is satisfied that (1) there is collusion between the person making the claim and the person against whom the claim is made has failed to contest the claim, it may for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, direct that the insurer who may be liable in respect of such claims shall be impleaded as a party to the proceeding and the insurer so impleaded shall thereupon have the right to contest  the claim on all or any of the grounds that are available to the person against whom the claim has been made.
Precedent	None of the conditions as provided in this section exists in the present case.
Precedent	This sub-section empowers an insurer to contest the claim for compensation only if these conditions are satisfied.
Precedent	Unless these conditions are satisfied, the insurer cannot contest the claim on any ground other than those specified in clauses (a) to (c) of Sub-section (2) of Section 96 of the Act."
Precedent	19.
Precedent	<ORG> of <ORG> also had an occasion to consider the point at issue in <CITATION_69966> , AIR 1977 All 330;  ACJ 252.
Precedent	Their Lordships stated the law thus (at p. 334 of AIR 1977):  " Almost every other <ORG> has taken the view that the defences open to an insurance company in a claim under Section 110 of the Motor Vehicles Act are restricted to those specified in Section 96 of the Act, See <ORG> v. <ORG>  ACJ 156 (Cal), <ORG> v. <ORG> r  ACJ 219 (Ker), <ORG> v. <NAME>  ACJ 49 (Orissa), <NAME> v. <NAME>  ACJ 1; AIR 1971 MP 145, <CITATION_405121>  ACJ II (Delhi), <ORG> v. <NAME>  ACJ 245 (All), <NAME> v. <NAME>  ACJ 460; AIR 1973 Raj 317, <NAME> v. <NAME>  ACJ 222 ( <CITATION_1805239>  ACJ 420; AIR 1973 Mys 107.
Precedent	We accordingly find that it is not permissible for the appellant in F.A.F.O.
Precedent	No.
Precedent	422 of 1975 to assail the findings of <ORG> on merits.
Precedent	It may, however, be added that, as we shall show while considering the appeal by the truck owner even on merits there is no substance in this appeal."
Precedent	20.
Precedent	<CITATION_859552>  ACJ 526, a Division Bench of <ORG> following the law laid down in <CITATION_149357>  ACJ 101, held that an insurance company cannot avoid liability except on the grounds contained in Section 96(2) of the Act.
Precedent	21.
Precedent	<ORG> and Haryana also reiterated the same view followin g its earlier judgments and the <ORG> judgment in Captain <NAME>'s case [1959] 29 Comp Cas (Ins.)
Precedent	60, in <CITATION_791759>  ACJ 203.
Precedent	22.
Precedent	<CITATION_1938300>  ACJ 169 (P & H), it was held that an insurance company cannot raise any argument regarding quantum of compensation either before the tribunal or in an appeal.
Precedent	23.
Precedent	<ORG> of <ORG> in Raddipalli Chinnarao v. Reddi Lorurdu [1980] ACJ 470, again reiterated that an insurer cannot question the quantum of compensation under the defences enumerated in Section 96(2) of the Act.
Precedent	24.
Precedent	<ORG> of <ORG> also took the same view in <ORG>, AIR 1979 Cal 152; [1980] ACJ 501.
Precedent	Their Lordships stated the <ORG> thus (at p. 154 of AIR 1979 (Cal)):  " Now, in view of the provision of subjection (2) of Section 96 of the the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, the appeal challenging the claim of the petitioners is limited within the grounds mentioned therein.
RatioOfTheDecision	Clearly the insurer, here the  insurance company, as appellant had no available ground to challenge the award in the appeal.
RatioOfTheDecision	The insurer-appellants cannot challenge the quantum of compensation fixed by the <ORG> and have, therefore, no ground to urge in this appeal challenging the award.
Precedent	In this view of the matter, the insurance company had no legal ground to prefer this appeal to challenge the award."
Precedent	25.
Precedent	Thus, from a review of the aforesaid judgments it becomes clear that an insurer cannot resist the claim before the <ORG> or challenge the award of the <ORG> in appeals on grounds other than those enumerated in Section 96(2) of the Act, except where the insurer has reserved a right in the policy of insurance to defend the claim in the name of the assured himself or where the <ORG> or the court is satisfied that the assured and the claimant have colluded with each other and in exercise of the powers under Section 110C(2A) have granted permission to the insurer to defend the claim on all the grounds on which an assured could d efend the claim.
Precedent	An insurer can, however, limit his liability under the terms of insurance, otherwise the liability extends to the statutory limits set out in the Act itself.
Precedent	26.
Precedent	I shall now consider the arguments raised by Mr. <NAME>.
Precedent	27.
Argument	Mr. <NAME> has argued that Section 110D of the Act does not impose any limitation on the grounds on which a party can file an appeal against an award of the <ORG>.
Argument	It is urged that Section 96(2) is not exhaustive and that it does not cover cases in which compensation has been granted arbitrarily and that in any event the limitations contained in it cannot be read into Section 110D to restrict the grounds on which an appeal can be filed.
Argument	It is urged that the insurer on whom the ultimate liability to satisfy the award falls, must have the right to question the quantum of compensation awarded by the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	28.
RatioOfTheDecision	To appreciate the arguments raised at the <ORG>, it would be relevant to remember that the Motor Vehicles Act is a complete code in itself.
Statute	Chapter 8 of the Act d eals with matters relating to claims for compensation arising out of a vehicular accident.
Statute	Sections 94 to 96 of the Act provide for compulsory insurance of a motor vehicle before it can be used on any public road and lay down the liability of the insurer to pay to the claimant directly, whenever there is a decree or the judgment of a tribunal or a court, as the case may be.
Statute	It also fixes the limits of the pecuniary liability on the insurer in certain cases.
Statute	Section 96 provides that the liability of an insurer shall arise only if the insured is found liable because the policy of insurance is a policy of indemnity.
Statute	Section 97 deals with the right of a third party against the insurer on the insolvency of the insured while Section 98 casts a duty on a person against whom a claim is made to give information as to his insurer.
Statute	Section 103 sets out the effect of a certificate of insurance policy.
Statute	Where the specified sum is less than the sum payable under Section 95(2) of the Act, the maximum liability of the insurer  will be as laid down in Section 95(2) .
Statute	However, if the sum specified in the insurance policy exceeds the sum fixed under Section 95(2) the maximum liability shall be to the extent of the sum specified in the insurance policy.
Statute	Sections 110A to 110F were introduced in the Act by Act No.
Statute	100 of 1956 to substitute the ordinary remedy of a civil suit by a special remedy, which is summary in nature.
Statute	Section 110 provides for the constitution of <ORG> and confers jurisdiction on it to adjudicate upon claims for compensation in respect of accidents involving death or bodily injuries to persons resulting from a motor vehicle accident.
Statute	Section 110A deals with the procedure for setting up a claim for compensation.
Statute	Section 110B relates to an award made by the <ORG>, after an enquiry into the claim.
Statute	Section 110C deals with the procedure and powers of the <ORG>, while Section 110D provides for an appeal from an award made by the Claims <ORG>.
Statute	Section 110E provides for the recovery, from the insurer, o f compensation money awarded by the <ORG>, as arrears of land revenue and Section 110F excludes the jurisdiction of civil courts to entertain any question relating to claims for compensation, arising out of a motor vehicle accident, in such areas where there exists a duly constituted Claims <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	This, broadly speaking, is the scheme of Chapter 8 of the Act and it is this scheme which one has to keep in mind while appreciating the contentions raised at the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	29.
RatioOfTheDecision	An award made under Section 110B has three components: firstly, it specifies the amount of compensation, if any, payable to the claimants, which appears to the <ORG> to be " just and reasonable " ; secondly, it specifies the person or persons to whom the compensation is to be paid ; and, thirdly, it specifies the amount out of the awarded compensation which is required to be paid by the insurer.
RatioOfTheDecision	In specifying this sum, the <ORG> has to take into account both the contractual as well as the statutory limits fixed under Section 95 of the  Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	30.
RatioOfTheDecision	The argument of Mr. <NAME> that the limitations which are set out in Section 96(2) of the Act in the matter of defending a claim petition before the <ORG> do not extend to appeals filed under Section 110D of the Act by an insurer or that Section 96(2) is not exhaustive is not sound.
RatioOfTheDecision	The limitations which are set out in Section 96(2) of the Act are implicit and inherent in Section 110D of the Act and have to be read into that section.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before a person can file an appeal under Section 110D of the Act, he has to be an " aggrieved party ".
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression "aggrieved party " contains the inherent limitations in the matter of filing an appeal.
RatioOfTheDecision	The expression " aggrieved " in the context of Section 110D of the Act has to be interpreted and understood in common parlance.
RatioOfTheDecision	(See in this connection <CITATION_1749406> , AIR 1976 SC 578).
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not possible to give an exhaustive definition of the expression " aggrieved party " and the expression has to be interpreted in the context in which it appears in a part icular statute.
RatioOfTheDecision	As a general principle, it has been held by the courts that a person who feels disappointed with the result of a case is not necessarily a " person aggrieved ", to be so classified, he must be disappointed of a benefit which he would have received if the order had gone the other way.
RatioOfTheDecision	The order must cause him the legal grievance by wrongfully depriving him of something.
RatioOfTheDecision	If he was not entitled to that relief in the first place, he cannot be aggrieved if the relief was denied to him but if he was entitled to it and the same has been denied to him, he would be a " person aggrieved ".
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, a party would be regarded as an " aggrieved party" for the purposes of Section 110D where the claim or defence available to that party did not find favour with the <ORG> in making an award.
RatioOfTheDecision	The party would be " aggrieved " only to that extent and no further.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is unimaginable that an insurer, which before the <ORG> had only limited defences can file an appeal on other grounds also.
RatioOfTheDecision	An appeal is a rehearin g of the claim petition and is, therefore, a continuation of it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is elementary that in an appeal, a party cannot be allowed to raise a defence which was not available to it in the forum below.
RatioOfTheDecision	It, therefore, follows that an "aggrieved party " for the purpose of Section 110D would only be such a party which is aggrieved of the award on the ground that its defence or claim as was available to it and was set up before the <ORG>, did not find favour with it.
RatioOfTheDecision	If a particular defence was not available to a party before the <ORG>, the question of it not having found favour with the <ORG> does not arise because no party can be aggrieved of any adverse decision on a ground which was not available to it.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, it is manifest that whereas an insured would have the right to challenge an award on all the grounds which were available to it before the <ORG>, an insurance company would be entitled to challenge the award only on the grounds which were available to it under Section 96(2) of the Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	31.
RatioOfTheDecision	Before  the Tribunal an insurer can resist the claim against him in two ways: (1) by urging that the insurer is not liable even though the insured may be liable, and (2) by pleading that the insurer is not liable because the insured is not liable.
RatioOfTheDecision	32.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the first head, an insurer is entitled to escape his liability by showing that the policy of insurance is void as it had been obtained on false representation or concealment of material facts or that the policy had been cancelled before the accident or that there had been a breach of any condition of the policy and the like grounds.
RatioOfTheDecision	The insurer is not entitled to raise any other ground of defence to avoid his liability, where the insured is found to have incurred the liability because of the simple reason that a policy of insurance being in the nature of a contract of indemnity, the insurer takes upon himself to discharge the liability of the insured arising out of a motor vehicle accident, subject, of course, to the terms and conditions of the policy and the max imum statutory liabi lity.
RatioOfTheDecision	He cannot, under the first head, avoid his liability except on the grounds mentioned above.
Precedent	When a party takes out a policy of insurance, it does so after paying the premium for the sum assured and unless the contract between him and the insurer can be avoided, the insurance com pany which has been benefited by the premium cannot back out of its commitment to indemnify the insured.
Precedent	This is manifest from the plain phraseology of Section 95(5) of the Act, which reads thus:  " Notwithstanding anything elsewhere contained in any law, a person issuing a policy of insurance under this section shall be liable to indemnify the person or classes of persons specified in the policy in respect of any liability which the policy purports to cover in the case of that person or those classes of persons. "
Precedent	33.
Precedent	However, no sum shall be payable by an insurer under Section 96(1) in respect of any award unless before or after the commencement of the proceeding in which the award is given, the insurer h ad notice through the Tribunal of the bringing of those proceedings.
Precedent	It is only an insurer to whom notice of the bringing of any such proceedings is given who shall be entitled to be made a party to the proceedings and to defend the action on the grounds contained in Section 96(2) of the Act, unless the insurer had reserved in the policy of insurance a right to defend the action in the name of the insured, in which event he can defend on all the grounds on which the insured could defend.
Precedent	34.
RatioOfTheDecision	Under the second head, an insurer can plead that there was no negligence on the part of the insured and raise all such pleas in defence to the claim as are available to an insured to show that the insured had not incurred any liability.
RatioOfTheDecision	This, however, can be done by the insurer only if the insurer had reserved in the policy of insurance a right to defend the claim in the name of the insured.
RatioOfTheDecision	If there is no such reservation made in the policy of insurance, then Section 96(2) strictly debars an insurer from taking any defe nce, other than those enumerated therein, to show that the insurer was not liable although the insured has incurred liability.
RatioOfTheDecision	35.
RatioOfTheDecision	Where an insurer finds that it has not reserved such a right but that the insured and the claimant have colluded with each other, as it is a possibility that cannot be ignored, it is open to an insurer to bring that fact to the notice of the <ORG> and seek its permission under Section 110C(2A) to contest the claim on all the grounds available to an insured.
RatioOfTheDecision	On being satisfied that there is such a collusion, the <ORG> would grant permission and on such permission being granted, the insurer steps into the shoes of the insured and defends the claim on all available grounds If the award goes against the insurer, it can challenge it in appeal also on all such grounds on which it had contended the claim before the <ORG>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Right of appeal against an award of the <ORG> is the creation of the statute.
RatioOfTheDecision	The Act had confined the right to avoid the liability of the insurer to the i njured on certain grounds specified in it.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is not open to this court to add to those grounds on the plea that hardship would be caused to the insurer.
RatioOfTheDecision	An insurer can avoid any hardship by remaining vigilant during the trial of the claim petition and also by providing, in the policy of insurance, for a right to defend the action in the name of the assured and that he had full liberty to do.
RatioOfTheDecision	Where the insurer has failed to do it, he cannot avoid the liability if the insured is found liable.
RatioOfTheDecision	36.
RatioOfTheDecision	The aforesaid discussion leads to the conclusion (1) that an insurer is not entitled to resist the claim or the award, where the insured has been found liable, on grounds not enumerated under Section 96(2) of the Act; (2) where the term of the policy of insurance provides that the insurer has the right to defend the action in the name of the insured, the insurer shall have the right to defend and, if he does so, all the defences as are open to the insured can be urged by the insurer both to resist the claim as well a s the award; (3) if it appears that the claimant and the insured have colluded, then after receiving permission of the <ORG> under Section 110C(2A) the insurer can defend the claim as well as the award on all grounds which are available to the insured; and (4) except for the aforesaid contingencies, an insurer cannot question an award in appeal and unless the case of the insurer is covered by (2) or (3) conclusions, as noticed above, an insurer cannot, in an appeal against the award, question the quantum of compensation only.
RatioOfTheDecision	37.
Precedent	It is in the light of the aforesaid conclusions that I shall now deal with the three appeals :  Civil Misc.
Precedent	First Appeal No.
Precedent	80 of 1977 In this case, respondents Nos.
Precedent	1 to 3 filed a petition for grant of compensation amounting to Rs.
Fact	50,000 before the Claims <ORG> in 1973, against the appellant and respondents Nos.
Fact	4, 5 and 7 (the insured and his driver) on the ground that <NAME> had died as a result of accident caused by the rash and negligent driving of Taxi No.
Fact	JKT 699 at Badshah Chowk, Srinagar, on 23rd April, 1973.
Fact	During the proceedings the owners of the vehicle were set ex parte and the claim for compensation was resisted only by the appellant and the driver of the vehicle.
Fact	From the pleadings of the parties the following issues were framed ;  1.
Fact	Whether the deceased, <NAME>, had died due to the injuries sustained in the accident that took place on 23rd April, 1973, at Badshah Chowk caused by <NAME> who was driving the vehicle No.
Fact	JKT 699 while the deceased was crossing the road ?
Precedent	OPP.
Precedent	2.
Fact	Whether the said accident was caused by the rash or negligent driving of <NAME>, driver, while driving his motor taxi No.
Fact	JKT 699 ?
Fact	OPP.
Fact	3.
Fact	In case issue Nos.
Fact	1, 2 are proved, to what amount of compensation the petitioners are entitled and in what proportion and from whom ?
Fact	OPP.
Fact	4.
Fact	Whether the vehicle involved in the accident was insured with NA No.
Fact	3 ?
Fact	5.
Fact	Whether the claim petition does not comply with the requirement of Section 110A of t he M.V.
Argument	Act and, as such, is liable to be dismissed ?
Argument	OP No.
Argument	3.
Argument	6.
Fact	Whether the petition is not signed by the petitioners or any person representing them and, as such, is liable to rejection.
Fact	If so, how......?
Precedent	OP NA 3.
Precedent	7.
Precedent	Whether the deceased himself was negligent and rash in crossing the road and the driver of the said taxi could not avoid the said accident ?
Precedent	OP NA's.
Precedent	8.
Precedent	Whether the claim petition is not within time and is liable to be dismissed.
Precedent	If so, how...... ?
Precedent	OP NA 5.
Precedent	9.
Precedent	Whether the vehicle involved in the accident had been sold by <ORG> to <ORG> on 19th April, 1973.
Precedent	If so, what is its effect on the case.
Precedent	OP <ORG>.
Precedent	38.
Fact	The insurer had neither sought the permission of the <ORG> under Section 110C(2A) nor had it reserved any right in the policy to defend the claim in the name of the insured.
Fact	As a matter of fact, perusal of the record reveals that the insurer did not, at the trial of the petition, resist the action on grounds other than those enumerated under Section 96(2) of the Act.
RulingByLowerCourt	39.
RulingByLowerCourt	The learned Tri <ORG> found that the accident had taken place due to the negligence of <NAME>, driver of taxi No.
RulingByLowerCourt	JKT 699, and that the deceased could not be held liable for any contributory negligence.
RulingByLowerCourt	The Tri<ORG> also found that at the time of his death, the deceased had an income of Rs.
RulingByLowerCourt	205 p.m. and that his age at the time of the accident was 58 years.
Fact	An amount of Rs.
Fact	30,000 was awarded as compensation and the liability to pay that amount was fixed on the appellant.
Fact	Neither the driver nor the owner filed an appeal and the award has been questioned by the insurance company only.
Argument	A preliminary objection has been raised by the learned counsel for the respondent to the maintainability of the appeal.
Argument	It is urged that it is not open to the insurer to question the finding of negligence or to challenge the award on quantum of compensation.
Argument	It is then argued that the respondent has filed cross-objections and claimed enhancement of compensation and that these cross-objections merit acceptance.
Argument	40.
Argument	Since, as already notic ed, the insurance company had not reserved in the insurance policy any right to defend in the name of the insured and further since the insurance company did not seek any leave of the <ORG>, expressly or impliedly, under Section 110C(2A) to defend in the name of the insured, who had been set ex parte, it is not now open to the appellant to challenge the quantum of compensation or the finding of the <ORG> about negligence of the driver of taxi No.
Precedent	JKT 699.
Precedent	Thus, the preliminary objection has merit and must succeed.
Precedent	The compensation awarded is not outside the limits of the liability of the insurer, under the policy or the statute, and as such the insurer cannot avoid the liability to pay the awarded amount.
Precedent	41.
RulingByLowerCourt	This appeal, therefore, is not competent and consequently the cross-objections also must be dismissed.
RulingByLowerCourt	Even otherwise, the cross-objections have no merit and there is no scope for enhancement of the compensation.
RulingByLowerCourt	The <ORG> while awarding compensation took into account that at the time of death,  the deceased aged 58 years, was having an income of Rs.
Fact	205 p. m. and taking the life span as 70 years, the <ORG> awarded compensation by using the multiple of 12 years for the yearly income of the deceased, i.e., (205 X 12 X 12) and awarded Rs.
Fact	30,000 to the claimants.
Fact	This was not a correct approach.
Fact	The <ORG> while calculating the amount did not take into consideration the loss suffered by the family of the deceased and did not determine as to what sum out of Rs.
Fact	205 p. m. was the deceased spending on his family, to assess the loss suffered by the family.
RulingByLowerCourt	It also made no allowance for accelerated payment.
RulingByLowerCourt	Thus, the compensation awarded definitely erred on the higher side and no further enhancement can be made in the cross-objections.
RulingByLowerCourt	42.
RulingByLowerCourt	Both the appeal and cross-objections, therefore, fail and are dismissed as such but without any order as to costs.
RulingByLowerCourt	Civil Misc.
Fact	First Appeal No.
Fact	21 of 1979 In this case respondent No.
Argument	1 filed a petition for grant of compensation amounting to Rs.
Argument	50,000, through his  <NAME>, against the appellant and respondents Nos.
Argument	2 and 3 (owner and driver of vehicle No.
Argument	JKB 5190) on the ground that on July 4, 1975, <NAME>, respondent No.
Argument	1, was hit by Truck JKB 5190 insured with the appellant, as a result of which accident, <NAME> had suffered fracture of his leg and the injured leg had later to be amputated at <ORG> where the injured had been removed after initial treatment at the S.M.
Argument	G.S.
Argument	Hospital, Srinagar.
Argument	The <ORG> awarded compensation amounting to Rs.
Argument	50,000 to respondent No.
Argument	1 and placed the liability of payment of the entire amount on the insurer, <ORG> Aggrieved, the insurance company alone has filed this appeal.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, appearing for the appellant, has urged that the claim petition was barred by time and, therefore, no compensation could have been awarded by the <ORG> to the claimant.
Argument	Alternatively, it is urged that the quantum of compensation awarded is very excessive and has been fixed arbitrarily.
Argument	An objection has been raised by the learned counsel for the respondent to the very maintainability of the appeal by the insurer.
Argument	43.
Argument	A, perusal of the file reveals that in the claim petition which was filed on August 2, 1976, it was stated in para.
Argument	14 that respondent No, 1 had remained in <ORG> for about three months and, thereafter at <ORG>, New Delhi, for about eight months and that for these reasons the petition could not be filed in time and that the petition was filed soon after the return of respondent No.
Argument	1 and his <NAME> from New Delhi.
Fact	To this petition, no objections were filed by any of the parties and no plea of limitation was ever raised before the <ORG> by any of its respondents.
Fact	It is also transpires from the record that notice of the claim petition was issued to the respondents, including the appellant, but they avoided service and consequently on an application filed by the claimant, service on the respondents was effected by publication in a news paper.
Fact	Despite the publication of that notice, nobody appeared and the case was set ex parte against all the respondents, including the insurer.
Fact	Mr. <NAME> then filed an application before the <ORG> for setting aside the ex parte proceedings against the insurance company and notice of the said application was given to respondent No.
Fact	1 on January 29, 1977.
Fact	By order of the <ORG> dated February 8, 1977, the ex parte proceedings taken against the appellant were set aside, subject to payment of costs and the appellant herein was given an opportunity to file objections to the claim petition by February 18, 1977.
Fact	On February 18, 1977, neither costs were paid nor objections were filed and an adjournment was sought for by learned counsel for the appellant.
Fact	The case was, on his request, adjourned to March 10, 1977.
Fact	On that date, again no objections were filed and another adjournment was sought for and granted to the appellant subject to payment of further costs and the case was adjourned to April 4, 1977.
Fact	On the  said date, i.e., on April 4, 1977, again neither the objections were filed nor costs were paid by the appellant and the <ORG>, once again, granted an adjournment to the appellant on payment of costs to file objections to the claim petition, by April 19, 1977.
Fact	However, neither costs were paid nor any objections were filed to the claim petition by the appellant and on April 19, 1977, the appellant-insurance company again absented itself and the case was set ex parte against it, and the claimant was directed to produce ex parte evidence on May 6, 1977.
Fact	On that date, it transpires, Mr. <NAME> again appeared for the appellant and sought permission of the <ORG> to take part in the proceedings " from that stage onward" without filing objections to the claim petition.
Fact	Permission was granted and the insurance company participated in the proceedings.
Fact	While the evidence was being recorded, on June 17, 1977, again nobody appeared for the insurance company, and onnce again the case was set ex parte against it.
Fact	There after, after seeking leave of the <ORG>, on one or two occasions, Mr. <NAME> put in his appearance and participated in, the proceedings but mostly the insurance company remained absen,t.
Fact	Respondent No.
Fact	1, the claimant, filed an application on April 10, 1978, seeking permission to examine two more: witnesses.
Fact	At that stage, Mr. <NAME> appeared and sought time to file objections to that application.
Fact	The case was adjourned to May 10, 1977, when on that date again some more time was sought for by Mr. <NAME> to file objections.
Fact	The case was adjourned to May 19, 1978.
Fact	However, despite obtaining two opportunities, no objections were filed and, consequently, the application was allowed and witnesses named in the application were directed to be examined on June 22, 1978.
Fact	On that date, i.e., on June 22, 1978, Mr. <NAME> appeared before the <ORG> and stated that he was taking up the matter with the insurance company to get it settled by mutual negotiations and prayed for an adjournment.
Fact	The case was adjourned to J uly 8, 1978, and again to July 19, 1978, and to August 19, 1978, every time at the request of Mr. <NAME>.
Fact	On August 19, 1978, it was reported by Mr. <NAME> that no compromise could be arrived at and the case was put up for further proceedings for September 16, 1978.
Fact	The insurance company again did not appear on that date and the case was, for the fifth time, set ex parte against it.
Argument	44.
Argument	The aforesaid narration of events shows the erratic manner in which the appellant had conducted the case before the <ORG>.
Argument	In the face of these facts, it does not now lie in the mouth of Mr. <NAME> to say that the claim petition was barred by time and that no award could have been made in respect thereof.
Argument	It was open to him to take that objection and controvert what had been stated by the claimant in para.
Argument	14 of the claim petition before the <ORG> but he chose not to do so, despite numerous opportunities granted to him.
Argument	Even though all the respondents had been set ex parte, the insurance company, on its own request, had  been given permission to take part in the proceedings but it chose not to avail of that permission and neither the explanation for the delay in filing the claim petition nor the fact that the accident had been caused due to the negligence of the truck driver was controverted before the <ORG>, by the insurer and despite numerous opportunities granted, it did not file any objections to the claim petition.
Argument	The <ORG>, after a proper appreciation of the evidence, returned the findings and made the award.
Argument	Keeping in view the manner in which the insurance company had conducted its defence before the <ORG> and also the fact that at no stage during the trial of the claim petition did it either raise the plea of limitation or question the allegation of negligence, the objection raised by learned counsel for respondent No.
Argument	1 to the maintainability of the appeal is well merited.
Argument	More so, when Mr. <NAME> has been unable to show how the insurer can avoid, the liability, when the insured has been found liable.
Argument	It  is also not shown by Mr. <NAME> that the liability of the insurer could not extend to Rs.
Precedent	50,000 under the policy of insurance.
Precedent	In the facts and circumstances of the case, I hold that this appeal has no merits and I dismiss the same, with costs.
Precedent	Civil Misc.
Precedent	First Appeal No.
Argument	24 of 1979 The salient facts giving rise to this appeal are : that on December 3, 1975, at Sella Sopore, <NAME> of respondent No.
Argument	1, met with an accident caused by truck No.
Argument	JKN 2811, owned by respondent No.
Argument	2 and which was being driven at the time of the accident by respondent No.
Argument	3.
Argument	As a result of the accident, <NAME> of respondent No.
Argument	1, received injuries and died.
Fact	The daughter of the deceased, respondent No.
Fact	1, through her next friend, submitted a claim petition before <ORG> claiming Rs.
Fact	50,000 as compensation for the death of her <NAME>, who it was alleged was aged 31 at the time of the accident and was the sole bread-earner of the family.
Fact	The learned <ORG> awarded the sum as claimed together with inte rest at the rate of 6% p.a.
Fact	from the date of the claim petition till the payment, and made the appellant insufance company liable for payment of the entire awarded compensation, vide award dated March 16, 1979.
Fact	The insurer has filed this appeal questioning the award on all the grounds.
Precedent	45.
Precedent	From a perusal of the record, it transpires that despite due service, respondents Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 and 3, the owner and the driver of the truck respectively, did not appear before the Tribunal and the case was set ex parte against them.
RatioOfTheDecision	The insurance company, however, appeared and participated in the proceedings.
Fact	Objections were filed to the claim petition by the appellant and it was pleaded therein that the accident had not been caused due to the alleged rash or negligent driving of the vehicle by the driver of the truck.
Fact	It was also pleaded that the vehicle was being plied in contravention of the conditions of the insurance policy and further that the owner-insured had procured the policy of insurance by not disclosing material fa cts and on representing false facts in material particulars.
Fact	It was on this basis, asserted that even if the insured and the driver are held to be liable to pay compensation, the insurance company was not liable to pay any compensation to the claimant, yet another objection raised was that all the legal representatives of the deceased had not preferred the claim and, therefore, the case could not be adjudicated upon.
Fact	The question of compensation claimed was also disputed by the insurance company.
Fact	Since neither the owner of the vehicle nor the driver had contested the claim petition, the <ORG> permitted the insurance company to defend the claim petition on all grounds, of course without expressly making an order under Section 110C(2A) of the Act.
Fact	The insurer, therefore, with the permission of the <ORG>, and without any objection having been raised by the claimant, contested the claim petition on all grounds on which an insured could defend the action.
Fact	In this appeal also, Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel  for the claimant, has conceded that since the insurer had been permitted by the <ORG> to contest the action on all the grounds, the insurer could challenge the award also on all those grounds, but it is maintained that neither the finding regarding negligence nor the amount of compensation awarded by the <ORG> called for any interference.
Fact	I shall, therefore, deal with this appeal on merits.
Precedent	46.
Precedent	From the pleadings of the parties the <ORG> framed the following issues :  1.
Precedent	Has not non-applicant No.
RulingByLowerCourt	3 any liability to pay the compensation as the vehicle was being plied in contravention of the policy conditions of the route permit granted for its use.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> non-applicant No.
RulingByLowerCourt	3.
RulingByLowerCourt	2.
Fact	Does the claim need to be dismissed as it has not been preferred by all the legal representatives of the deceased ?
Fact	<ORG> non-applicant No.
RulingByLowerCourt	3.
RulingByLowerCourt	3.
RulingByLowerCourt	Was the accident caused due to rash and negligent driving of the driver which resulted in causing the death of the <NAME> of the applicant.
RulingByLowerCourt	<ORG> Applicant.
RulingByLowerCourt	4.
Fact	In case issue No.
Fact	3 is prove d, to how much compensation the applicant is entitled and from whom and in what proportion OP Applicant.
Fact	5.
Fact	Relief.
Fact	Issue No.
Fact	1  The insurer did not lead any evidence in respect of issue No.
Fact	1 and consequently the said issue was decided against the insurer.
Fact	Issue No.
Fact	2  It transpires from the record that before evidence was led, the attorney for the claimant filed an affidavit to the effect that there were no other legal representatives of the deceased, except the minor daughter.
Fact	Learned counsel for the insurance company did not controvert that affidavit and consequently, vide order of the <ORG> dated February 8, 1977, issue No.
Fact	2 was not pressed before the <ORG> and the same was also decided against the insurance company.
Fact	Issue No.
Fact	3  The claimant examined, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>, <NAME>.
Fact	The insurance company in rebuttal examined <NAME>.
Fact	47.
Fact	According to <NAME>, A.W., the deceased <NAME>,  was collecting leaves outside the garden when Truck No.
Fact	JKN 2811 came from the side of Sopore at a very fast speed and ran over <NAME>.
Fact	The said truck was being driven by respondent No, 3 at that time.
Fact	That many people collected there and police also arrived at the spot.
Fact	The body of <NAME> was taken out from under the truck.
Fact	That the accident had been caused due to rash and negligent driving of the driver of truck No.
Fact	JKN 2811.
Fact	That <NAME> was earning about 200/300 rupees p.m. during those days.
Fact	<NAME>, A.W., corroborated <NAME>, A.W., in all material particulars both as regards the manner in which the accident took place and the negligence of the driver in causing the accident.
Fact	During his cross-examination, he stated that the deceased was drawing about Rs.
Fact	300 p.m. at the time of the death and was about 30 years old at that time.
Fact	He went on to add that when the body was pulled out from under the truck, the deceased was breathing heavily and that he died soon thereafter.
Fact	48.
Fact	<NAME> <NAME>, A.W., <NAME>, A.W., <NAME> and <NAME>, <NAME>, also corroborated the statement of the aforesaid witnesses as regards the rash and negligent manner in which the truck was being driven by its driver and the manner in which the accident, causing the death of <NAME>, <NAME>, took place.
Fact	All these witnesses also deposed that the deceased was about 30 years of age at the time of the accident and that he was earning about Rs.
Fact	300 p.m. at the time of his death.
Fact	All these witnesses categorically asserted that the deceased had died as a result of the accident.
Fact	49.
Fact	Rehman <NAME>, A.W., brother of the deceased, deposed that the deceased was earning about Rs.
Fact	300 p.m. and that the claimant <NAME>, is his only daughter.
Fact	That she has no other relations and that her mother had married another person, leaving her all alone and uncared for.
Precedent	He also gave the age of the deceased at the time of the accident as about 30 years.
Precedent	50.
Argument	In rebuttal, <NAME>, <ORG>, stated that the investigation of the  case relating to the accident in question was undertaken by him and that according to Mm it was a simple case of accident and that during the investigation, the complainant was unable to establish that the accident had occurred due to rash and negligent driving of the driver of the truck.
Fact	He went oh to add that the magistrate had agreed with the police report arid the case closed.
Fact	The witness, however, did not produce the final report nor disclosed which of the witnesses he had examined in the investigation.
Fact	This is all the evidence in the case.
Precedent	51.
RatioOfTheDecision	The evidence of the eye witnesses, <NAME>, <NAME> and others, as noticed above, conclusively establishes that the accident took place due to rash and negligent driving of the truck by its driver.
RatioOfTheDecision	Those eye witnesses were not at all challenged on this aspect of the case during cross-examination and their testimony inspires confidence.
RatioOfTheDecision	From "their evidence, it emerges that <NAME> had been run over by the truck and that he died due to the injuries rece ived by him in the accident.
RatioOfTheDecision	No rebuttal whatsoever of the evidence led by the claimant was given by the insurance company.
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact that the accident took place on the main road, opposite a garden, and the 'truck ran over the deceased, whose body had to be pulled out from under the truck, also lends credence to the evidence led by the claimant about the manner in which the accident took place.
RatioOfTheDecision	It stands clearly established that the accident was caused by the rash and negligent driving of the truck by respondent No.
RatioOfTheDecision	3.
RatioOfTheDecision	The statement of <NAME>, SHO, is hardly of any consequence.
RatioOfTheDecision	He did not produce either the final report nor did he disclose as to what investigation he had carried out or the names of the witnesses1 he had examined.
RatioOfTheDecision	His evidence, thus, does not create any dent in the evidence led by the claimant.
RatioOfTheDecision	As a matter of fact, instead of disproving the case of the claimant, his evidence lends credence to her case inasmuch as he did not dispute that the accident in question had taken place on the  date and the time alleged and that the deceased had died as a result of the accident.
RatioOfTheDecision	His bald assertion that the complainant had failed to establish the charge against the driver or it was a simple case of accident is wholly insufficient to discard the trustworthy testimony of the witnesses produced by the claimant.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> was, in the face of the evidence led before it, perfectly right in deciding issue No.
RatioOfTheDecision	3 in favour of the claimant and holding that the accident had been caused due to rash and negligent driving of the driver and also that the death of the <NAME> of the claimant was caused as a result of that accident.
RatioOfTheDecision	Learned counsel for the appellant has been unable to show any error in the finding arrived at by the <ORG> and from what I have said above, I find no reason to take a different view either.
RatioOfTheDecision	The finding of the <ORG> on issue No.
RatioOfTheDecision	3 is, therefore, confirmed.
RatioOfTheDecision	Issue No: 4 Findings on this issue has been seriously assailed by learned counsel for the appellant and it is argued that the  method adopted by the <ORG> for assessing compensation was faulty and not proper.
RatioOfTheDecision	52.
RatioOfTheDecision	In support of this issue, the evidence led by the claimant, as noticed above, shows that the <NAME> of the claimant was earning about Rs.
RatioOfTheDecision	300 p.m. at the time of his death.
RatioOfTheDecision	He was about 31 years of age at that time.
RatioOfTheDecision	The evidence also reveals that the deceased was a healthy man and was not suffering from any ailment and but for the accident had reasonable chances to live a long life.
RatioOfTheDecision	The <ORG> awarded Rs.
Argument	50,000 as compensation to the claimant.
Fact	In the opinion of the <ORG>, for at least 15 years more the deceased would have lived and earned at the rate of Rs.
Fact	300 p.m. and, thus, the claimant had been put to a loss of Rs.
Fact	(300 X 12 X 15) = Rs.
Fact	54,000 by the death of her <NAME>.
Fact	Since the claimant had herself claimed only Rs.
Fact	50,000, therefore, the same was awarded to her even though her loss was assessed at Rs.
Fact	54,000.
Precedent	53.
Argument	Mr. <NAME>, learned counsel for the appellant, has urged that the <ORG> applied wrong princi ples in determining the compensation, inasmuch as it failed to work out the monthly dependency of the family to assess the loss of the claimant.
Argument	It is pointed out that Rs.
Argument	300 p.m. was not the loss of the claimant because the deceased must have been spending some amount on his own upkeep also.
Argument	It is also urged that the <ORG> should have taken into account the effect of accelerated payment and made some deduction on that account.
RatioOfTheDecision	To me there appears to be considerable force in the submissions of Mr. <NAME> and for what shall follow, I am of the opinion, the <ORG> had misdirected itself while assessing the just and fair compensation.
RatioOfTheDecision	54.
RatioOfTheDecision	Indeed, for assessing compensation, no rigid formula can be laid down and each and every case depends upon a number of factors peculiar to the life and circumstances of the family concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, courts have from time to time held that the compensation should be, ' just and fair ' and that it should not be a windfall.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some guidelines were prescribed by this court.
Fact	<C ITATION_134666630>  ACJ 403, where <ORG> of this court, comprising <NAME> (as his Lordship the Acting Chief Justice then was) and myself, while dealing with the principles which should govern the working out of the amount of compensation, gave the following illustrative guidelines :  " A principle which has generally been accepted by most of the courts in India, including the <ORG> court, for working out the amount of compensation one is to ascertain the annual income of the deceased, after making allowance for the estimated amount which the deceased was spending on himself during his lifetime and then capitalising the same by multiplying that amount by the number of years of purchase of dependency.
Fact	Out of that amount an allowance is made for any amount which the family of the deceased receives on account of the death of the deceased.
Fact	The basic factor for working out compensation, which generally guides the courts, is that the compensation must be ' just and fair'.
Fact	The family of the deceased of co urse do not have to get a windfall or derive any undue benefit from the unfortunate death of the deceased, yet they are entitled to at least receive so much of the amount which is essential for their upkeep and to meet other necessary expenses which, had the deceased been alive, would have been provided by him.
Fact	These considerations assume very great importance in cases where the deceased happens to be the sole bread-earner of the family. "
Precedent	55.
Precedent	In <NAME> case 1979 ACJ 403, the deceased was about 35 years of age.
Fact	He was earning about Rs.
Fact	476 at the time of his death.
Fact	The Bench found that the deceased must have been spending about Rs.
Fact	360 p.m. out of his salary of Rs.
Fact	476 p.m. on his dependants.
Fact	The court accepted the evidence that the deceased would have continued to earn Rs.
Fact	476p.m.
Fact	"till his retirement at the age of 55, i.e., for the next 20 years.
Fact	The basic figure was then worked out by this court by adopting a multiple of 20 (the gap between the age at the time of death and the age of superannuation ).
Fact	The court came to the conclusion that the loss to the dependants Was (360 X 12 X 20) = Rs.
Fact	86,400.
Fact	Out of this amount, the extent of the pecuniary benefits received by the family of the deceased (according to the evidence) amounting to Rs.
Fact	26,614 were deducted.
Fact	From the remainder, a further deduction of 1/6th of the amount was made on account of accelerated lump sum payment.
Fact	Thus, the total compensation was worked out as Rs.
Fact	49,905 rounded up to Rs.
Fact	50,000.
Fact	56.
Fact	In the instant case, the deceased was 31 years of age on the date of his death.
Fact	Though, keeping the normal life expectancy in the villages as 60 years, the deceased might have lived for about 29 years more, he would have supported the claimant, his 6 year old daughter, for another 15 years only, till she got married.
Fact	He would have then spent some amount on her marriage also.
Fact	Since the claimant and her <NAME> were the only two persons in that family and the deceased was the sole bread-earner it would not be unrealistic to assume that the deceased mu st have been spending about Rs.
Fact	100 p.m. on his own maintenance and the balance of Rs.
Fact	200 from his earnings he must be spending on his daughter as well as saving some amount for her marriage.
Fact	Therefore, for capitalising the loss suffered by the claimant in this case, the multiple of 15 for arriving at the basic figure should have been adopted.
Fact	The amount of compensation would then wort out to (200 X 12 X 15) = Rs.
Fact	36,000.
Fact	Out of this amount, deduction for accelerated lump sum payment at 1/6th was required to be made.
Fact	So deducting Rs.
Fact	6,000 from Rs.
Fact	36,000 the compensation payable would come to Rs.
Fact	30,000 and that in my opinion would be the " fair and just" compensation to be paid to the claimant.
Fact	I am conscious that in arriving at this figure, some amount of conjecture has crept in; but in a case like the present, as observed by <ORG> in <CITATION_470583>  ACT 110 ; AIR 1=970 SC 376 (at p/380):  " In assessing damages, the court must exclude all considerations of matter which rest in speculatio n or fancy though conjecture to some ex tent is inevitable."
Fact	--it is unavoidable.
Argument	57.
Argument	I, accordingly, accept this appeal partially and reduce the amount of compensation from Rs.
Fact	50,000, awarded by the <ORG>, to Rs.
Fact	30,000.
Fact	The claimant snail also be entitled to receive interest'at the rate of 6% on this amount from the date of tne application till the realisation of the awarded amount.
Precedent	58.
Fact	The claimant is still a minor and her mother has remarried.
Fact	She is being looked after by her uncle, <NAME>.
Precedent	I, therefore, consider it proper to direct that the sum of Rs.
Precedent	30,000 shall be deposited by her uncle, <NAME>, in the name of <NAME> (minor) infixed deposit with any Scheduled bank f6f a period of five years initially and, thereafter, it shall be renewed from time to time till <NAME> gets married.
Precedent	The amount of interest shall be withdrawn by her uncle, <NAME>, every month for meeting the expenses of <NAME>.
Precedent	The- entire amount of Rs.
Precedent	30,000 shall be withdrawn by her uncle at the time of  her marriage, and after meeting the necessary expenses of marriage, the remaining amount shall be given over to <NAME>.
Precedent	59.
Precedent	Since the appeal has partially succeeded, I leave the parties to bear their own costs of this appeal.
Precedent	<NAME>, Actg.
Precedent	C.J.
Precedent	I agree.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME>, J.  I also agree.
