Precedent	JUDGMENT G.S.
Precedent	Lal, J.
Precedent	1.
Fact	This second Civil Appeal arises out of a suit for ejectment from a house and recovery of arrears of rent.
Fact	The suit was decreed by the trial Court and an appeal from the judgment and decree of the trial Court was dismissed.
Fact	2.
Fact	The suit was instituted by <NAME> (respondent in this appeal) against <NAME> (appellant in this appeal) claiming that he had terminated the tenancy by notice to quit and had obtained the permission of the District Magistrate under Section 3 of the U. P. (Temporary) Control of Rent and Eviction Act , 1947 to get over the bar to the institution of the suit created under that section.
Fact	Admittedly the appellant's <NAME> <NAME> was originally the tenant of the house on a monthly rent of Rs.
Fact	35 from its former owner <NAME>.
Fact	The house was sold by <NAME> to one Smt.
Fact	<NAME>.
Fact	The latter in turn sold it to the respondent.
Fact	After the purchase of the house, which professedly was for the purpose of his own reside nce, the respondent obtained the District Magistrate's permission dated 8-8-1966 to sue the tenant for eviction.
Fact	He had already given a notice dated 24-3-1966 to the appellant terminating the tenancy and asking for vacation of the premises.
Fact	The plaintiff filed a revision before the Commissioner but the same was dismissed on 20-1-1967.
Fact	The suit was instituted the same day.
Fact	3.
Fact	The suit was contested by the defendant-appellant on various grounds.
Fact	The notice was said to be invalid since it was not given after grant of permission, and the permission to be invalid as the purchase was with full knowledge of the tenancy.
Fact	<NAME>, who had died about 10 years before suit, had left, besides his widow (appellant), three sons and daughters from her as also two sons from an earlier wife.
Argument	Since permission had been obtained to file a suit against the widow and not the sons and daughters of <NAME> and the notice terminating the tenancy had also been addressed to, and served upon, the widow alone, it wa s pleaded that the notice was bad for that reason and the permission was also illegal and without jurisdiction.
Argument	The suit was also said to be not maintainable on the ground of the State Government having passed a stay order on the filing of a revision application by the defendant under Section 7-F of the aforesaid Act.
Argument	4.
Argument	As to the plea of the notice being invalid on the ground that it was not given after the grant of permission by the District Magistrate, not again after the confirmation of the District Magistrate's order by the Commissioner, the learned Additional Munsif who tried the suit held that it was not necessary to give the notice after the grant of permission and that it could be given before that.
Argument	The plea has not been pressed again at least in this Court, and for obvious reasons, as it has been held in several decisions of this Court that it is not necessary that the notice under Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act be given only after the permission to evict has been obtained.
Argument	About the a dditional ground (raised by an amendment of the written statement) that the notice was bad because it had been both addressed to and served upon the appellant alone though <NAME> had left other, heirs and the tenancy devolved upon those other heirs also, the learned <NAME> held that the appellant alone had been acting as, and asserting herself to be, the tenant and had for all practical purposes been recognised as the tenant and she was thus the sole tenant He was further of the opinion that even if the sons and daughters had inherited the tenancy rights they had impliedly surrendered those rights in favour of their mother.
Argument	For these reasons he held the notice to have been rightly given to the appellant alone.
Argument	5.
Argument	Regarding the plea of invalidity of the permission, it was conceded before the learned <NAME> on the defendant's side that permission granted against one co-tenant held good against all the co-tenants.
Argument	He held that the defendant had failed to show in what respect otherwise the permission  was illegal and without jurisdiction.
Argument	On the plea that <ORG> had stayed the operation of the order of the lower authorities granting permission and the suit was therefore, not maintainable, the learned <NAME> found that no order of stay of <ORG> was on the record and so he rejected the plea.
Argument	6.
RulingByLowerCourt	After deciding also the minor controversies which related to the arrears of rent and damages, the trial Court decreed the suit for ejectment and for recovery of a lesser amount as arrears of rent besides damages for use and occupation.
RulingByLowerCourt	7.
RulingByLowerCourt	In the appeal filed by the defendant <NAME> <NAME> the second Additional Civil Judge who disposed the same held that it being undisputed that a tenancy is heritable in the absence of a contract to the contrary and that <NAME> had left surviving him not only the appellant but also sons and daughters, those sons and daughters also became co-tenants of the house with the widow.
RulingByLowerCourt	However, relying on the decision of <ORG> in <CITATI ON_647655> , AIR 1963 SC 468 he held that the notice to the widow alone to determine the tenancy was sufficient and the suit for ejectment filed against her alone was also good at law.
RulingByLowerCourt	In regard to the permission, he too held that nothing had been shown as to how the permission was illegal or without jurisdiction and that so far as the ground that it was obtained against one of the co-tenants only was concerned, the decision in the case <CITATION_123740> , 1958 All LJ 573 = (AIR 1959 All 33) showed that the permission obtained against one co-tenant was good against the entire body of the class designated as 'the tenant'.
RulingByLowerCourt	The plea based on an alleged stay order by <ORG> was not seriously pressed in the appeal.
RulingByLowerCourt	Reiving upon the Full Bench case <CITATION_1283552> , 1965 All LJ 58 = (AIR 1965 All 498) (FB) the learned Judge held that the proceedings under Section 7-F aforesaid could have no effect on the suit already instituted.
RulingByLowerCourt	It may be stated that this position, has since been confirmed by the d ecision of <ORG> in <CITATION_1472953> , AIR 1970 SC 763 = 1968 All WR (<ORG>) 892.
RulingByLowerCourt	The appeal was accordingly dismissed.
RulingByLowerCourt	8.
Fact	In the second appeal the same legal pleas have been reiterated and argued.
Fact	Learned counsel for both the sides have been heard at length.
Fact	It may be noted here that another second civil appeal No.
Fact	152 of 1967 with a similar plea about invalidity of notice given to one co-tenant only was also tacked with this appeal under decision after it had been heard in part and this appeal is being decided after hearing also learned counsel for both the sides in that other second appeal.
Argument	9.
Argument	On the side of the appellant it has been urged that the decisions of <ORG> in India have no doubt been that a notice served on one of the co-tenants is a good notice to the other co-tenants but that is only where the notice is addressed to all.
Argument	It is said that the notice in the instant case was addressed only to the appellant and was served only on her.
Argument	For that reason the notice is said to be  not in accordance with law and therefore, invalid for the purpose of terminating the tenancy.
Argument	In regard to the <ORG> decision aforesaid, the argument is that the same is distinguishable because it relates to a case of "joint tenants" as distinct from "tenants-in-common" which is the position of the appellant and the other heirs of <NAME> who succeeded to the tenancy by inheritance.
Argument	Now the expression "joint tenants" has very often been used in those earlier cases too which have been cited on the appellant's side and on which reliance is placed for the argument that in order to be effective under Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act, the notice must be addressed to all the co-tenants but it has not been urged that in those decisions also the expression "joint tenants" was intended to refer to co-tenants holding as "joint tenants" as distinguished from "tenants-in-common".
RatioOfTheDecision	It has also not been disputed that the expression "joint tenants" was used in those cases as a substitute for "c o-tenants" and not with a view to indicate the nature of the estate held by the co-tenants.
RatioOfTheDecision	It therefore, needs to be examined whether the <ORG> decision referred to above was peculiar to any "joint tenancy" estate held by the co-tenants in the tenancy and whether the same is not applicable to co-tenants who got the rights of a tenant in the tenancy on his death by inheritance.
RatioOfTheDecision	10.
RatioOfTheDecision	At the outset it may be stated that there is no controversy on the proposition that even in the case of a monthly tenancy, the tenancy is inherited by the heirs of the tenant on his death.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was so held in <CITATION_777207> , AIR 1940 Cal 89; Mannalal Serowjie v. Ishwari Prasad, AIR 1966 Cal 447 and <CITATION_495339> , AIR 1937 Nag 321.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is also not in controversy that except in the case of coparceners in a joint Hindu family under the Hindu Law, property under various inheritance laws in this country is taken by inheritance from a deceased owner by his heirs as "tenants in common" and not as "joint tenants" as between  themselves.
RatioOfTheDecision	So it cannot be doubted that as between themselves the interest which the heirs of a deceased tenant inherit will itself be heritable and will not pass by survivorship and in that sense they cannot be said to hold it as "joint tenants."
RatioOfTheDecision	That is why the expression "joint tenants" used in dealing with a case of more than one person holding together the tenancy either by original lease in their favour or by inheritance from a deceased tenant is meant to convey nothing more than the idea that such persons hold the tenancy as one entity and not that they hold that kind of estate which is governed by the rule of passing by survivorship.
Precedent	If the <ORG> decision in AIR 1963 SC 468 can be said to be in relation to a case of joint tenants in such ordinary sense of the expression, then it would be directly relevant to the instant case, but if it laid down law of sufficiency of notice to determine lease by being given to one of the co-tenants to a case where the co-tenants were holding the tenancy by wa y of an estate of "joint tenancy", then the decision would be distinguishable, though the point would still require decision whether in other cases of joint tenancy also notice to one of the joint tenants will not be good and effective in law for the purpose of terminating the tenancy.
Precedent	This calls for an examination of the facts of <NAME> case.
Precedent	AIR 1963 SC 468.
Argument	11.
Argument	<NAME> case, AIR 1963 SC 468 decided by <ORG> arose out of a suit filed by the Trustees of <ORG> for ejectment of <NAME> and <NAME> from a piece of land.
Fact	The land had been leased by the Trustees of <ORG> on a monthly tenancy to two persons.
Fact	Those two persons later assigned their rights in the lease to <NAME> and <NAME> and the assignment appeared to have been accepted by the lessors.
Fact	Some years later, the Trustees of <ORG> sent a notice to <NAME> and <NAME> requiring them to vacate the premises and deliver vacant and peaceful possession on a certai n date.
Fact	On non-compliance with the notice the suit was instituted against both the persons.
Fact	It however, turned out that <NAME> had died much earlier to the institution of the suit and the plaintiff therefore, amended the plaint by deleting the name of <NAME>.
Fact	The suit was contested, inter alia, on the ground that the notice of termination of tenancy was Invalid inasmuch as it had been served only upon one of the lessees (that is, <NAME>) and not upon the heirs and legal representatives of <NAME>, who were also said to be necessary parties to the suit.
Fact	The suit was decreed by <ORG> by holding that the tenancy was a joint tenancy and notice to one of the joint tenants was sufficient and that the suit was also not bad for non-joinder of the legal representatives of <NAME>.
Fact	An appeal to <ORG> was dismissed summarily.
Fact	The dispute was taken to <ORG> by <NAME> upon having obtained from that <ORG> special leave to appeal.
Fact	In paragraph  7 of the judgment of <ORG> it was observed:--  "The argument about notice need not detain us long.
Fact	By the deed of assignment dated February 28, 1947, the tenants took the premises as joint tenants.
Fact	The exact words of the assignment were that '.....the assignors do and each of them doth hereby assign and assure that the assignee as joint tenants.....'.
Fact	The deed of assignment was approved and accepted by <ORG>, and <NAME> and the appellant must be regarded as joint tenants.
Fact	The trial Judge, therefore, rightly held them to be so.
Argument	Once it is held that the tenancy was joint, a notice to one of the joint tenants was sufficient and the suit for the same reason was also good, Mr. <NAME>, in arguing the case of the appellant, did not seek to urge the opposite, In our opinion, the notice and the frame of the suit were, therefore, proper, and this argument has no merit."
Argument	12.
RatioOfTheDecision	It can very well be argued that the expression "joint tenants" used in the deed of assignment and  used in the above paragraph by their Lordships of <ORG> was meant to convey no other sense than that <NAME> and <NAME> did not take separate and exclusive interests under the assignment and that they were joint tenants in the sense that they were to hold the lease jointly and not with separate Interests therein.
Precedent	In the Kerala High Court case <CITATION_1568071> , AIR 1968 Ker 229 a angle Judge of that Court interpreted <NAME>'s case, AIR 1963 SC 468 to be one relating to a tenancy held by two persons as "joint tenants" in the other sense.
Precedent	It was observed at page 229, column 2 of the report:--  "That is clear from the emphasis placed by their Lordships on the circumstance that the tenants took the premises as joint tenants, the deed of assignment by which they acquired the lease expressly providing that they were taking as joint tenants.
Precedent	Where joint owners are joint tenants there is unity of title, unity of interest and the right of survivorship in addition to unity of possession so  that it might be said that any one of the joint tenants represents the entire estate--indeed in the <ORG> case already referred to it would appear that one of the two joint tenants had died and the lease had vested solely in the other by survivorship before notice to quit was served on the other so that there was no question of the legal representatives of the deceased joint tenant having any interest whatsoever in the lease so as to require that notice should go to them."
Argument	The learned Judge proceeded further to observe at page 230 column 1:--  "Where, however, the joint owners are only tenants in common there is only unity of possession, not of title or interest, and to determine a tenancy so held in accordance with Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act notice must be addressed to all the tenants though proof of service on one will be prima facie proof of service on all.
Argument	<CITATION_572376> , AIR 1918 PC 102 and <CITATION_380642> , AIR 1925 Cal 752.
Argument	In the words of the section, notice must go to  every party intended to be bound by it, and if it is not issued to any of the joint owners of the lease there is no determination of the lease so far as he is concerned.
Argument	A lease cannot be determined piecemeal and hence it follows that there is no determination even so far as the others are concerned."
Argument	The argument in the second quotation will be discussed later on, but the observation in the latter part of the first quotation itself would indicate that their Lordships of <ORG> had not in their mind the consideration, that <NAME> and <NAME> were owners of the tenancy as "joint tenants" in the special sense, with the right of survivorship as an incident thereof, for in that case it would have been enough for their Lordships to dispose of the controversy by merely saying that upon the death of <NAME> his interest passed to <NAME> and he became the sole lessee, with no necessity in consequence of any notice going to the heirs of <NAME> or of their impleadment as defenda nts in the suit.
RatioOfTheDecision	On the other hand, their Lordships proceeded to lay down that a notice to one of the joint tenants was sufficient and the suit against one joint tenant was for the same reason also good.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, reference to an old well-known <ORG> case relied upon on the respondent's side may also be made.
Precedent	That case is AIR 1918 PC 102 in which it was laid down that in the case of joint tenants each is intended to be bound and service of a notice to quit upon one joint tenant is prima facie evidence that it has reached the other joint tenants.
Precedent	There was a suit by the landlords of a piece of land against the tenants and sub-tenants who were actually in possession.
Fact	The set of defendants who were the tenants consisted of seven persons some of whom were members of a joint Hindu family of which the others were once such members but had ceased to be so.
Fact	This fact is significant in so far as it shows that all the seven tenants were not, as between themselves, bound by any rule of passing of their interest b y survivorship.
Fact	It may also be stated that they had come to possess what was formerly the tenancy holding of one <NAME> and that they were being treated as tenants in place of <NAME> who was treated as dead.
Fact	In that case notice was sent to all the seven persons separately but a contest was entered into as to whether some of them who had not been personally served with notice could be regarded as duly served.
Fact	It was in the context of this contest that their Lordships of <ORG> observed at page 110, column 2 of the report at the very commencement of their discussion on this controversy:--  "Next and lastly as to the service of the notice to quit.
Fact	The 106th section of the Transfer of Property Act , 1882, only requires that such a notice should be tendered or delivered to the party intended to be bound by it either personally or to one of his family or servants at his residence, or if such tender or delivery be not practicable, affixed to a conspicuous part of the property.
RatioOfTheDecision	The per-sonal tender o r delivery may take place anywhere; the vicarious tender or delivery must take place at the residence of the person intended to be bound by the notice.
RatioOfTheDecision	Well in the case of joint tenants, each is intended to be bound, and it has long ago been decided that service of a notice to quit upon one joint tenant is prima facie evidence that it has reached the other joint tenants.
Precedent	<ORG> v. <NAME>, (1805) 5 Esp 196 = 8 RR 848, Doe d. <NAME> v. <NAME>, (1806) 7 East 551 = 8 RR 670 = 3 Smith KB 517, <NAME> v. <NAME>, (1856) 6 Ir CLR 367".
Precedent	13.
Precedent	About this case it has been argued on the appellant's side that as a matter of fact notice was issued to all the seven co-tenants and the notice was also held to have been sufficiently served on each one of them and in the circumstances the observation that in the case of joint tenants each is intended to be bound and service of a notice to quit upon one joint co-tenant (is evidence that it has reached the other joint tenants?)
RatioOfTheDecision	is prima facie an obiter dicta.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this co nnection reliance was placed on the <ORG> case, <CITATION_25576> , AIR 1967 SC 997 in which it was observed that a decision made on a concession made by parties, even though principle conceded was accepted by <ORG> without discussion, cannot be given the same value as a decision given upon a careful consideration of pros and cons of the question raised.
RatioOfTheDecision	The judgment in the case no doubt did not discuss the grounds for the rule enunciated, but that appears to be because the rule was taken to be well recognised.
RatioOfTheDecision	There were three English cases cited in that connection.
RatioOfTheDecision	At any rate, the service of a notice addressed to all the co-tenants upon one of them only has been held to be sufficient service for terminating the tenancy in a number of decisions of various <ORG> following this <ORG> case.
RatioOfTheDecision	Some of these cases are Pt.
RatioOfTheDecision	<NAME> v. <NAME>, 1956 All LJ 650; <CITATION_1788626> , AIR 1964 All 52; <NAME> v. <NAME>, AIR 1965 All 287; <CITATION_342651> , AIR 1929  Cal 651; <CITATION_139594> ., AIR 1966 Cal 63; <CITATION_592009> in Coun-cil, AIR 1945 Nag 255; <CITATION_349744> , AIR 1935 Bom 247 and Mst.
RatioOfTheDecision	Banubai v. <NAME>, AIR 1964 Bom 96.
RatioOfTheDecision	In none of these cases, however, the question arose whether a notice addressed to one or some only of the joint tenants and served upon him or some was sufficient to terminate the tenancy, since the notice was addressed to all.
RatioOfTheDecision	It was in the case, AIR 1925 Cal 752 that It was specifically decided that the notice must be addressed to all and the same view has been taken in the Kerala High Court case.
RatioOfTheDecision	AIR 1968 Kerala 229.
Argument	In the Calcutta case the <ORG> case cited above was distinguished on the ground that the notices were addressed to all the joint tenants by being sent to all of them.
Argument	The rases (1805) 5 Esp 196 = 8 RR 848 and (1806) 7 East 551 = 8 RR 670 = 3 Smith KB 517 referred to in the <ORG> case were also considered.
Argument	The first case was said to have no value because in India the matter is governed by the p rovisions of the Transfer of Property Act About the other case it was said that the matter was left to the Jury.
Argument	It cannot be supposed that their Lordships of <ORG> had not in mind the statutory provision in Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act when they laid down the rule that "in the case of joint tenants each is intended to be bound, and it has long ago been decided that service of a notice to quit upon one joint tenant is prima facie evidence that it has reached the other <ORG> tenants".
Argument	Indeed they were specifically considering Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act and the use of the words "each is intended to be bound" was with reference to the language of the section.
Statute	The relevant part of Section 106 is in the following words:--  "Every notice under this section must be in writing, signed by or on behalf of the person giving it, and either be sent by post to the party who is intended to be bound by it or be tendered or delivered personally to such party or to one of his family  or servants, at his residence, or (if such tender or delivery is not practicable) affixed to a conspicuous part of the property."
Statute	14.
Fact	One requirement under the above quoted provision is about the form of the notice, namely, that it should be in writing and signed by or on behalf of the person giving it.
Fact	The other is about service of the notice.
Precedent	15.
Precedent	It has not been laid down in the: section that the notice should be addressed to all co-tenants or to every one of them.
Precedent	In regard to service of notice, it is required that it be sent by post to the party who is intended to be bound by it or be tendered or delivered personally to such party or to one of his family or servants at his residence, or, if such tender or delivery is not practicable affixed to a conspicuous part of the property.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the words "party who is intended to be bound by it" are interpreted to mean each one of the co-tenants where the tenancy is held by more than one person jointly, then notice must be served on each one of the co-tenants and th at would be in direct conflict with the rule about which there is no controversy that service of a notice on one of the co-tenants would be sufficient service in respect of all (provided it is addressed to all).
RatioOfTheDecision	The fact of its being addressed to all will be immaterial if the notice must be served on each co-tenant individually in order that all of them may be bound.
RatioOfTheDecision	The rule of sufficiency of service of notice on one co-tenant in the case of co-tenancy can be in conformity with the requirement of the section only if the co-tenants are taken to constitute one "party" so that service on any one only of them will be service on the party intended to be bound.
RatioOfTheDecision	It must be in this background that it was laid down by <ORG> in <NAME> case, AIR 1918 PC 102 that "well in the case of joint tenants, each is intended to be bound"; in other words, if a notice is given to one of the joint tenants, it means that the joint tenants as a whole are intended to, be bound by the notice.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is an incident of  'tenancy' that it is one and even though more than one person may hold it they hold it together as one.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is well recognized that a landlord cannot terminate the tenancy piecemeal, nor can some out of the several co-tenants terminate it for themselves only.
RatioOfTheDecision	Co-tenants who come to hold a tenancy by inheritance may, for the purposes of succession have an estate as "tenants in common" and not "joint tenants", but the special incidents attaching to a tenancy will not be changed upon the tenancy passing to more than one person by inheritance.
RatioOfTheDecision	In so far as their relationship with the landlord is concerned, they hold the tenancy jointly and for the landlord they constitute one unit.
RatioOfTheDecision	So even if a notice is addressed to one or some of the co-tenants, it must be effective as against all, the only limitation to this being that there is nothing to show that the tenancy is intended to be terminated piecemeal and it is clear that the intention is to terminate the tenancy as a whole.
RatioOfTheDecision	It appears that it is by way of this s afeguard that while laying down the rule in the several decisions mentioned above that service of notice on one co-tenant will be sufficient service of notice for terminating the tenancy that the qualification has been added that the notice should be addressed to all the co-tenants.
RatioOfTheDecision	There does not appear to be any sanctity otherwise behind this qualification.
Precedent	In this connection the following passages from the report of AIR 1964 Bom 96 which, if I may say so with respect, contain also my line of thinking, may be usefully reproduced:--  "(11) In this connection it is contended by the learned counsel for the appellants that the provisions of Section 11 of Hindu Succession Act in terms lay down that, property acquired by heirs who inherit by intestate succession is acquired by them as tenants-in-common and not as joint tenants.
Precedent	In this context reference is also invited to paragraph 31 of <NAME>'s Hindu Law, page 99, 12th edition.
Precedent	In my judgment, the phrase "tenants-in-common" or "joint tenants" used in Section 19  of the Hindu Succession Act or in other texts, when considering the rights of owners of property inter se cannot be confused with the right to hold land as joint tenant in the sense as joint lessees or co-lessees or co-tenants of property such as the subject-matter of the suit.
Precedent	The word "tenant" in Section 19 is not used in the sense of lessees.
Precedent	That word is used in the sense of owners of property whether they are joint owners of property or holding in defined shares.
Precedent	It is an incident of ownership that has been referred to in Section 19 and that incident in the case of persons holding as tenants-in-common is that the devolution in the case of each of these tenants-in-common would be according to the personal law while in the case of persons holding as joint tenants it will be by survivorship.
Precedent	The expression is not germane in deciding whether the leasehold is held as joint tenants.
Precedent	That expression may have led to some confusion and it is preferable to refer to rights of more than one person holding under the  leasehold vis-a-vis the landlord as co-tenants or co-lessees.
Precedent	If understood in that sense, there will be no difficulty in holding that all the co-lessees or co-tenants held as joint tenants in the sense that they have a single tenancy relationship with the landlord and they are not different tenants vis-a-vis the landlord.
Precedent	(12) If this is the correct interpretation of the position of persons even succeeding under Section 19 to a leasehold interest of the deceased Hindu, there would be no difficulty in holding that notice to one of the joint tenants in this case should be held to be a valid and good notice provided notice is intended to be notice to all these joint tenants.
Precedent	It is in that sense that the decision of <ORG> in ILR 46 Cal 458 = (AIR 1918 PC 102) has been applied in several <ORG>."
Precedent	16.
Precedent	In contrast, the view taken in the Kerala case, on the one hand, that the expression "party intended to be bound by it" means in the case of co-tenants, each co-tenant individually and, on the other han d, that notice can be served on one of them to bind all, would appear to be self-contradictory and also in conflict with the provisions of Section 106 about service of notice with the said interpretation of that expression.
Precedent	17.
Precedent	I accordingly hold that both on the authority of <NAME> case, AIR 1963 SC 468 aforesaid and otherwise (i.e., if it applies only to joint tenants with right of survivorship) the notice served on the appellant was sufficient to terminate the tenancy since on the facts of this case, it must be inferred that by the notice it was intended to terminate the tenancy as a whole and not in part.
Precedent	18.
Precedent	It may be noted that the appellant was for all practical purposes acting as the tenant.
Precedent	She admitted the averment in the plaint that the house was in her tenancy.
Precedent	It was for the first time in her written statement that she referred to the existence of her sons and daughters.
Precedent	The plea of those sons and daughters being also tenants was raised by an amendment of the written statement.
Precedent	She has d eposited rent under Section 7-C of the U.P.
Precedent	(Temporary) Control of Rent and Eviction Act describing herself as the tenant.
Precedent	The notice required the vacation of the house which meant house as a whole and not in part.
Precedent	In the permission proceedings also personal necessity for the house as a whole and not in part was disclosed.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	As has already been stated, it was conceded in the first appellate Court that the permission was not invalid on the ground of having been obtained against the appellant alone.
Precedent	Though no grounds were put forward in the courts below for the permission being invalid otherwise or without jurisdiction, it has been argued in this Court that the permission is invalid and without jurisdiction for want of considering the needs of the tenant as well as required according to the <ORG> case of this Court, <NAME> v. <NAME>, 1968 All WR (HC) 572 = (AIR 1969 All 474) (FB).
RatioOfTheDecision	It is however incorrect to suggest that in the case under consideration the District Magistrate did not consider w hatever case was put up by the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	On her behalf it was only said that she was a poor lady and had no source of income to make her both ends meet during these hard days.
RatioOfTheDecision	That did not mean that she required the house in dispute in particular for her residence.
RatioOfTheDecision	She was only interested in refuting the case of personal needs advanced by the respondent before the District Magistrate.
RatioOfTheDecision	Accordingly the plea of invalidity on the new ground taken in this Court has also no substance.
RatioOfTheDecision	20.
RulingByPresentCourt	In the result the appeal must fail.
RulingByPresentCourt	It is dismissed with costs and the order of stay against execution is vacated
