Fact	THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI % Judgment delivered on: 26.10.2010 + FAO (OS) 341/2007 <NAME> ..... Appellant versus <NAME> & OTHERS ..... Respondents  Advocates who appeared in this case:  For the Appellant : Mr <NAME> with Mr <NAME> For the Respondents : Mr <NAME>, Sr Advocate with Mr <NAME> and Mr <NAME>  HON'BLE MR JUSTICE <NAME> HON'BLE MS JUSTICE <NAME>  1.
Fact	Whether Reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the judgment ?
Fact	Yes  2.
Fact	To be referred to the Reporter or not ?
Fact	Yes  3.
Fact	Whether the judgment should be reported in Digest ?
Fact	Yes <NAME>, J  1.
Fact	This appeal raises interesting issues with regard to the concepts of „matrimonial home‟ and „shared-household‟ and also concerning the right of residence of a wife in the matrimonial home, shared-household or some other place.
Fact	2.
Fact	This appeal is directed against the judgment and / or order dated 02.07.2007 passed by a learned single Judge of this court in IA Nos .291/2005 and 8444/2005 in CS(OS) 41/2005.
Fact	The suit had been filed by the appellant against her <NAME>, Mr <NAME> (defendant No.1), her <NAME>-in-law, Mr <NAME> (defendant No.2) (since deceased) and her mother-in-law, Mrs <NAME> (defendant No.3).
Fact	During the pendency of the suit as also the said applications, the appellant‟s <NAME>-in-law (the said defendant No.2) passed away and his legal representatives, being his widow (Mrs <NAME>), son (Mr <NAME>), daughter, Mrs <NAME> and another daughter (Mrs <NAME>), were brought on record.
Fact	3.
Fact	In the said suit, the appellant / plaintiff had sought the following reliefs:-  "(a) Grant a decree of permanent injunction restraining the Defendant Nos.
Fact	1, 2 and 3 from committing themselves or through their agents / representatives acts of violence and intimidation against the plaintiff;  (b) Grant a decree of permanent injunction restraining the Defendant Nos.
Fact	1, 2 and 3 and their agents / representativ es from forcibly dispossessing the Plaintiff out of her matrimonial home without due process of law;  (c) Grant any other / further relief / relief (s) as may be deemed fit and proper under the facts and circumstances of the case."
Fact	4.
Fact	In IA No.291/2005, the appellant / plaintiff sought an interim order restraining the defendants from dispossessing her from her „matrimonial home‟, which, according to her, was the property at 18-A, Ring Road, Lajpat Nagar-IV, New Delhi.
Fact	It is her case that she was occupying the first floor of the said property and there was imminent danger of her being dispossessed from the said portion of the said property without following the due process of law.
Fact	IA No.8444/2005 was filed by the appellant / plaintiff seeking interim orders restraining the defendants from creating any third party rights in the said property.
RulingByLowerCourt	The said applications were dismissed by the learned single Judge by virtue of the impugned order dated 02.07.2007.
Fact	The learned single Judge was of the view that the plain <NAME> could not claim any right to stay in the said property as it did not belong to her <NAME> (defendant No.1), but it belonged to her parents-in- law.
Fact	Taking note of the statement under Order 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 made by the defendant No.2 that the defendants have no intention to throw out the plain<NAME> from the first floor of the said property, which is occupied by her, without following the due process of law, the learned single Judge ordered that the said defendants would be bound by the statement.
Argument	However, the learned single Judge clarified that this would not prevent the defendants 2 and 3 from taking recourse to law for dispossessing the plain<NAME>.
Argument	5.
Argument	The learned single Judge in paragraph 9 of the impugned judgment and / or order observed as under:-  "There is no dispute that the suit property belongs to the defendant Nos.
Fact	2 and 3.
Fact	The plain<NAME>‟s <NAME>, namely, the defendant No.1 has no share and / or interest in the same."
Fact	Again in para 9 of the impugned judgment / order, t he learned single Judge observed that:-  "The question for prima facie consideration is as to whether the plaintiff has any right to stay in the suit property in which her <NAME> has no right, interest or share and belongs to her <NAME>-in-law and mother-in-law.
Fact	Incidental question for determination is as to whether it could be treated as matrimonial home of the plaintiff?"
RulingByLowerCourt	FAO (OS) 341/07 Page 3 of 38  6.
RulingByLowerCourt	The learned single Judge, it is obvious from the aforesaid extracts, proceeded on the basis that the said property belonged to defendant Nos.
RulingByLowerCourt	2 and 3, that is, the <NAME>-in-law and the mother-in-law and that there was no dispute with this proposition.
RulingByLowerCourt	Consequently, relying on the <ORG> decision in the case of <CITATION_594165> : 2007 (3) SCC 169, he observed that the ratio of the said <ORG> decision was clearly that the daughter-in-law has no legal right to stay in the house which belongs to her parents-in-law.
RulingByLowerCourt	The learned single Judge observed that the legal position which emerged was th at the <NAME> had a legal and moral obligation to provide residence to his wife and, therefore, the wife was entitled to claim a right of residence against her <NAME>.
RulingByLowerCourt	He further observed that if the house in question where she lived after marriage belonged to her <NAME>, the same could certainly be treated as a matrimonial home.
RulingByLowerCourt	Furthermore, if the house in question belonged to a Hindu undivided family in which her <NAME> was a co-parcener, even that house could be termed as a matrimonial house.
RulingByLowerCourt	But, where the house belonged to the parents-in-law in which the <NAME> had no right, title or interest and the parents-in-law had merely allowed their son alongwith the daughter-in-law to stay in the said house, it would amount to mere permissive possession on the part of the daughter-in-law and would not give her any right to stay in the said house inasmuch as the same would not be her matrimonial home.
RulingByLowerCourt	7.
Precedent	The learned single Judge also noted that there was a serious dispute as to whether the property could , at all, be termed as a matrimonial home.
Precedent	He referred to the pleadings from which it, prima facie, appeared that the appellant / plaintiff lived in the said property from the date of her marriage in 1994 till 1996 when she moved out to Defence Colony as her relations with the defendants had become strained.
Fact	Interestingly, her <NAME> (defendant No.1) also joined her and started residing with her in Defence Colony, which was a rented accommodation.
Fact	In 1999, the appellant / plaintiff and her <NAME> (defendant No.1) returned to the said property and resided in the first floor.
Fact	Serious allegations have been hurled by the plaintiff as well as the defendant No.1 against each other with regard to their chastity.
Fact	There is also an allegation that the defendant No.2 married another lady sometime in 2004 and that she had moved into the said property.
Fact	It was alleged that because of these incidents, the appellant / plaintiff left the property in 2004.
Fact	Of course, she re-entered the first floor of the said property on 10.
Fact	10.2004 at 2.30 a.m.
Fact	It is because of this circumstance, that the learned single Judge was prima facie of the view that there was some credence in the allegations of the defendants that the appellant / plaintiff had forced her entry into the said property on 10.10.2004 at an odd hour.
Fact	Another circumstance which may be noted is that the appellant / plaintiff had also taken a flat in Mumbai for the period December 1999 to November 2000 and that the lease of the flat was in her name and she had stayed there for three-four months and her <NAME> had also joined her.
RulingByLowerCourt	It is because of these circumstances that the learned single Judge was of the view that there was a serious dispute as to whether the suit property could, at all, have been termed as a matrimonial house, particularly when the appellant / plaintiff had left the said property in the early part of 2004 and had, prima facie, forcibly entered the same on 10.10.2004.
RulingByLowerCourt	8.
RulingByLowerCourt	Anyhow, the main thrust of the reasoning adopted by the learned single Judge was that  the daughter-in-law (appellant/plaintiff) cannot claim any right to stay in the said property inasmuch as the said property belonged to her parents-in-law.
RulingByLowerCourt	This conclusion is based on the said decision of <ORG> in the case of <NAME> (supra).
Argument	9.
Argument	Mr <NAME>, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff raised three points of attack insofar as the impugned decision is concerned.
Argument	His first and main point was that the learned single Judge had proceeded on the basis that there was no dispute that the property belonged to the defendants 2 and 3.
Argument	He submitted that the plaintiff had nowhere admitted the defendants 2 and 3 to be the sole and exclusive owners of the said property.
Argument	Consequently, the learned counsel submitted that since the very premise was wrong, the conclusion based on such premise was obviously erroneous.
Argument	He also submitted that because the said premise was faulty, the decision of <ORG> in the case of <NAME> (supra) would not be applicable to the facts  and circumstances of the present case.
Argument	10.
Argument	The second point of attack was that the learned single Judge had erred in holding that the appellant / plaintiff, could not, as a matter of law, claim any right in the property of the mother-in-law.
Argument	He submitted that the plaintiff / appellant had a right of residence and that this proposition was not correct.
Argument	The third point of attack was that since the learned single Judge had decided that in law, the appellant / plaintiff could not claim any right in the property of the mother-in-law, the suit as such had virtually been dismissed without returning any conclusive findings or recording any satisfaction on the factual aspects at all.
Argument	He, therefore, submitted that this was a fit case for remand, after the impugned order was set aside.
Argument	11.
Argument	Elaborating on the first aspect of the matter, that the appellant / plaintiff had not admitted the defendant Nos.
Argument	2 and 3, jointly or the defendant No.3 by herself, to be the exclusive owner(s) of the said property, Mr <NAME> drew  our attention to the pleadings of the parties and, in particular, to the written statements filed on behalf of the defendant Nos.1, 2 and 3.
Argument	Referring to para 3 of the written statement of the defendant No.1, Mr <NAME> pointed out that the stand taken is that the said property belonged to defendant No.3 (the mother-in-law).
RulingByLowerCourt	However, in paragraph 17 of the same written statement, a somewhat different statement has been made to the following effect:-  "...
Fact	The suit property lawfully belongs to the parents of the defendant No.1 and the plaintiff has no claim whatsoever in the said suit property."
Fact	Again, in para 21 of the written statement of the defendant No.1, it is stated as under:-     "... the matrimonial house of the parties will be the residence of the <NAME> i.e.
Fact	defendant No.1 and not the house / property of the parents of the <NAME> i.e.
Fact	defendant No.2 and 3 to whom the suit property belongs.
Fact	The suit property is the self acquired property of the defendant No.2 and 3 and no person except the defendan t No.3 has any right, title or interest in the suit property.
Fact	The matrimonial home of the plaintiff thus will be the house in which her <NAME> i.e.
Fact	defendant No.1 resides who has his residence in Dehradun and not in the suit property."
Argument	12.
Argument	Mr <NAME> submitted that from the aforesaid averments made in the written statement, the defendant No.1 has taken conflicting stands.
Argument	At one place, the defendant No.1 has stated that the property belongs to his mother (defendant No.3) and not to the plaintiff and at other places he has stated that it belongs to his parents, i.e., both defendant Nos.2 and 3.
Argument	13.
Argument	Referring to the written statement of the defendant No.2, Mr <NAME> submitted that the defendant No.2 claimed the said property to have been built from his personal earnings and also on the basis of the loan which he had taken from <ORG>.
Precedent	He referred to the following averments in paragraph 6 of the written statement:-  "6.
Precedent	That the correct facts in brief imperative for the proper adjudication of the present matter are  that the house at 18A, Ring Road, Lajpat Nagar was built from the personal earnings of defendant No.2 and also the loan which he had taken from <ORG>.
Fact	The defendant No.2 was living on the ground floor with his wife, defendant No.3 and three unmarried children.
Fact	The plaintiff and the defendant No.1 got married in the year 1994.
Fact	After the marriage, the plaintiff and the defendant No.1 lived with defendants no.2 and 3 in the ground floor of their house.
Fact	Thereafter, in the year 1996, the plaintiff and the defendant No.1 left the said premises at Lajpat Nagar and took a separate residential premises for their living in C-461, Defence Colony, New Delhi which remained their residential premises till 1999.
Fact	The said house was taken on lease by plaintiff and defendant No.1 and all the payments for rent and were duly reflected in defendant No.1‟s Bank statement for the said period.
Fact	Thereafter plaintiff and defendant No.1 had been living at different places from time to time.
Fact	For the last few years plaintiff and defendant  no.1 started living in defendant No.1‟s house in Dehradun or at times at the First Floor of the suit property with permission of defendants no.2 & 3.
Fact	Whenever they stayed at Lajpat Nagar House even though they maintain separate kitchen.
Fact	Defendant No.2 had been paying all electricity and water charges including payment to security guards and other related expenses.
Fact	For the said reasons the first floor at Lajpat nagar house belonging to defendant No.3 was never considered to be matrimonial home of plaintiff and defendant No.1."
Fact	The defendant No.3, in paragraph 11 (preliminary objections) of her written statement, has categorically stated that the suit property is the self acquired property of the defendant No.3 and no person except the defendant No.3 has any right, title or interest in the suit property.
Fact	In para 2 (parawise reply on merits), the defendant No.3 once again stated that she was the true and legal owner of the suit property and the defendant No.2 and 3 have been in possession of the suit property.
Argument	14.
Argument	In view of the averments made in the said written statements, Mr <NAME> submitted that the stand of the defendants is unclear.
Argument	At one point, they claim that the property belongs to the defendant Nos.2 and 3 and at other points they claim that the property belongs to defendant No.3 exclusively.
Argument	Thus, according to Mr <NAME>, the shifting stands are indicative of the ulterior designs of the defendants to oust the appellant / plaintiff from her matrimonial home.
Argument	15.
Argument	He then referred to para 21 of the replication, where, for the first time, the plaintiff raised the plea that the said property was not the self- acquired property of the defendants 2 and 3 and also denied that no person except the defendant No.3 had any right, title or interest in the suit property.
Argument	It was, therefore, contended by Mr <NAME> that there was a dispute with regard to the ownership of the suit property.
Argument	Continuing further, Mr <NAME> referred to the Order X statement made under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 by the defendant No.2 , where once again, the said defendant took a different stand that the property bearing No.18-A, Ring Road, Lajpat Nagar, Delhi had been bought by his wife, Mrs <NAME> out of her own income and that the perpetual lease deed was executed by <ORG> in her favour.
Argument	16.
Argument	Mr <NAME> also submitted that an application being IA No.8442/2005 had been filed by the appellant / plaintiff under order 6 Rule 17, CPC seeking amendment of the plaint.
Argument	One of the amendments sought was the introduction of para 12-B, wherein the plaintiff proposed to allege that the defendant No.3, in collusion with the other defendants, had transferred part of the above said property in the name of defendant No.4 falsely claiming this to be her absolute property, knowing fully well that the said property was the joint ancestral property and by making false averments regarding possession and consideration.
Argument	In other words, the appellant / plaintiff sought to take, inter alia, the plea of joint ancestral property by virtue of the said amendment  application.
Argument	Mr <NAME> said that that application is pending and is yet to be disposed of.
Argument	He submitted that the learned single Judge ought to have disposed of the application for amendment prior to passing the impugned order.
Argument	This, according to him, is another reason as to why the impugned order ought to be set aside and the matter be remanded to the learned single Judge for a fresh consideration.
Argument	17.
Argument	There was also some controversy with regard to a status quo order dated 08.01.2005.
Precedent	But, we need not go into that aspect of the matter.
Argument	The main thrust of the arguments advanced by Mr <NAME> was that the foundation on which the learned single Judge had premised his conclusions was itself faulty inasmuch as the learned single Judge, assumed that there was no dispute that the suit property belonged to the defendants 2 and 3 in which the appellant‟s / plaintiff‟s <NAME> had no share or interest.
Argument	He submitted that he has been able to show, prima faice, that there was a dispute as to whether the defendants 2 and 3  or the defendant No.3 alone was the exclusive owner of the said property and that the issue as to whether it was a joint family property also needed to be looked into.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, the decision in the case of <NAME> (supra) would not be applicable to the facts and circumstances of the present case, because, in the <ORG> decision, the position with regard to ownership, being that of the mother-in- law, was undisputed.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
Precedent	Referring to the following decisions, Mr <NAME> submitted that the property in question was the matrimonial home of the appellant / plaintiff and she had a right to reside therein and, therefore, she was entitled to an order restraining the defendants from dispossessing her and / or creating any third party interest therein:-  1) <CITATION_252590> : 162 (2009) DLT 459;  2) <CITATION_925132> .
Precedent	: 2007 (1) SCC 521;  3) <CITATION_1867354> :  AIR 2009 SC 636;  4) <CITATION_1245246> : 1995 (6) SCC 88;  5) <CITATION_594165> : 2007 (3) SCC 169;  6) <CITATION_693512> : 2009(2) RCR(Civil) 8 83;  7) <CITATION_152067037> :  [CRL.
Precedent	R.C.
Precedent	Nos.48 and 148 of 2008 and M.P.
Precedent	Nos.
Argument	1 of 2008 decided on 25.03.2008].
Argument	19.
Argument	Mr <NAME>, the learned senior counsel, appearing for the respondent No.3, submitted that the present appeal is merely academic because the learned single Judge has virtually decreed the suit.
Argument	He submitted that one of the reliefs claimed in the suit was to permanently injunct the defendants from forcibly dispossessing the plaintiff out of her matrimonial home "without due process of law".
Argument	He submitted that this relief has already been granted by the learned single Judge by virtue of the impugned order, whereby he directed as under:-  "19.
Argument	In view of the above, insofar as the right of the plaintiff to stay in the suit property is concerned, she cannot claim any such right as the property belongs to her parents-in-law.
Argument	However, statement of defendant No.2 was recorded by the Court under Order X CPC where he stated that he or his wife had no intention to throw her out of the premises in  question without due process of law.
Argument	FAO (OS) 341/07 Page 12 of 38  Therefore, while dismissing the applications of the plaintiff, it is ordered that the defendant Nos.1 and 2 shall remain bound by the said statement.
Argument	This, however, would not prevent the defendants to take recourse to the law for dispossessing the plaintiff."
Precedent	20.
Precedent	Mr <NAME> further submitted that at the time when IA Nos.
Argument	291/2005 and 8444/2005 were being argued and which ultimately came to be disposed of by the impugned order, the appellant / plaintiff did not press for hearing of the amendment application.
Argument	Consequently, she cannot now be permitted to submit that the said amendment application ought to have been decided prior to the said IA Nos.291/2005 and 8444/2005.
Argument	He further submitted that the appellant / plaintiff did not press for any additional issue with regard to the title in respect of the said property.
Argument	Referring to the <ORG> decision in <CITATION_315007> : 2002 (2) SCC 256, Mr <NAME> submitted that the rights of th e parties stand crystallised on the date of institution of the suit and subsequent events are not to be taken into account unless the three circumstances referred to therein arise.
Precedent	The said three circumstances are:-  (i) that the relief, as claimed originally has, by reason of subsequent events, become inappropriate or cannot be granted;  (ii) that taking note of such subsequent event or changed circumstances would shorten litigation and enable complete justice being done to the parties; and  (iii) that such subsequent event is brought to the notice of the court promptly and in accordance with the rules of procedural law so that the opposite party is not taken by surprise.
Precedent	FAO (OS) 341/07 Page 13 of 38  21.
Argument	Mr <NAME> fully supported the impugned judgment and contended that there was no infirmity in the same and, therefore, did not call for any interference.
Argument	He submitted that the case of the appellant / plaintiff was that there was no abandonment of the matrimonial home and that she had a right to live  in the matrimonial home even if it belonged to her in- laws.
Argument	Earlier, the <ORG> decision in the case of <CITATION_1235126> : 116 (2005) DLT 646 had been relied upon by the appellant / plaintiff as observed in the impugned order itself, but the <ORG> decision in <NAME> (supra) reversed the decision of the <ORG> and sealed the fate of the appellant / plaintiff.
Argument	Mr <NAME> also referred to a decision of a learned single Judge of this court in the case of <NAME> v. <NAME> & Others: (2008) 106 DRJ 623 by way of persuasive value to submit that under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005, there is no concept of matrimonial home.
Argument	On the other hand, the concept is of a „shared house-hold‟.
Precedent	In that case, the learned single Judge, after referring to and relying upon the decision of the <ORG> in <NAME> (supra) held that a daughter-in-law has no right to live in the house belonging to her parents-in-law.
Precedent	22.
Fact	Mr <NAME> also submitted that in t he present case, the said property cannot be regarded as the matrimonial home because, first of all, the appellant / plaintiff left the house in 1996 when she went to reside in Defence Colony.
Fact	Her <NAME>, the defendant No.1 also left the said property and resided with her in Defence Colony.
Fact	Secondly, the appellant / plaintiff resided in Dehradun and, thirdly, she resided in Mumbai and then in 2004, she once again left the said property, only to re-enter the same on 10.10.2004 at 2.30 a.m.
Fact	He referred to the order X, CPC statement of the appellant / plaintiff, wherein she stated that she had married the defendant on 05.11.1994 and that she had shifted to Defence Colony in June, 1996 and remained there till March, 1999.
Fact	She then stated that she was forced to leave her matrimonial home in 2004.
Fact	She also admitted that she took a flat in Bombay during the period December 1999 till November, 2000 and that the lease of the Bombay flat was in her name and that she was in Bombay for three to four months and that her  <NAME> had joined her later on.
Fact	She also admitted to her going to Pakistan in January 2004 and staying there for six days alongwith a number of other persons.
Fact	Thereafter, she went to Pakistan again on 12.04.2004 to 24.05.2004 with a women‟s organization.
Fact	She also admitted that during the period February 2004 till 09.10.2004, no formal complaint was lodged by her.
Precedent	23.
Fact	According to Mr <NAME>, the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005, would come into play only when domestic violence takes place.
Fact	This is not a case of domestic violence as there has been no whisper of any violence during February 2004 to 10.10.2004 when the appellant / plaintiff re-entered the said property at 2.30 a.m.
Argument	He submitted that apart from this not being a case of domestic violence at all, the appellant / plaintiff having come to learn that the defendant <ORG> was interested in disposing of the said property, wanted to put an impediment in the sale so as to extract some money from the defendants.
Argument	For all these reasons,  Mr <NAME> contended that the appeal be dismissed.
Argument	24.
Argument	Let us first deal with the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that the foundation of the learned single Judge‟s decision that there was no dispute that the suit property belongs to defendant Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 and 3 was itself faulty and, therefore, the entire decision is liable to be set aside.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is true that the learned single Judge had proceeded on the basis that there was no dispute that the suit property belonged to defendants 2 and 3 and even the question which was taken up for prima facie consideration by the learned single Judge, as would be apparent from paragraph 9 of the impugned order, was founded on the understanding that the appellant‟s <NAME> (defendant No.1) had no right, title or share in the said property and that the said property belonged to the appellant‟s <NAME>-in-law and mother- in-law.
RatioOfTheDecision	We have already noticed above that the learned counsel for the appellant was at pains to attempt to demonstrate that the appellant / plaint iff nowhere admitted that the said property belonged to her <NAME>-in-law and mother-in-law or to her mother-in-law exclusively.
RatioOfTheDecision	He had also pointed out that there is no admission by the appellant / plaintiff that her <NAME> (defendant No.1) did not have any right, interest or share in the said property.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned counsel for the appellant had drawn our attention to the written statements filed by the defendants as also the replication filed by the appellant / plaintiff and the Order X CPC statement of the defendant No.2.
RatioOfTheDecision	25.
RatioOfTheDecision	On going through the relevant portions of the said documents, it appears that the defendant No.1 took the stand that the said property belonged to his mother (defendant No.3).
RatioOfTheDecision	However, in the very same written statement, the defendant No.1 had also stated that the said property belonged to defendant Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 and 3 and that it was their self-acquired property.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the very same paragraph (para 21 of the written statement of the defendant No.1), it is again stated that no person except  the defendant No.3 has any right in the said property.
Argument	The defendant No.2 in his written statement stated that the said property was made from his personal earnings and from a loan taken from <ORG>.
Argument	However, in his Order X CPC statement, the defendant No.2, took a different stand and stated that the property was bought by his wife (defendant No.3) out of her own funds.
Argument	The defendant No.3, however, took a clear stand in her written statement that the said property was her self- acquired property and no person except her had any right, title or interest in the same.
Argument	She stated that while she was the true and legal owner of the said property, her <NAME> (defendant No.2) and she were in possession of the suit property.
RatioOfTheDecision	26.
RatioOfTheDecision	It does appear from the averments made in the written statements of the defendant Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	1 and 2 that there is a shift in the stand taken with regard to the ownership of the said property.
RatioOfTheDecision	The defendant No.1 had taken the stand that the property belongs to his mother (defendant No.3) and that  no person except the defendant No.3 had any right, title or interest in the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, he has also averred that the said property belonged to defendants 2 and 3.
RatioOfTheDecision	A similar ambivalence is discernible in the stand taken by the defendant No.2 in his written statement and his order X CPC statement.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, this much is clear that none of the defendants have stated that the appellant‟s <NAME> (defendant No.1) had any right, title or interest in the said property.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is only some lack of clarity in the pleadings with regard to the exclusivity of ownership of the defendant No.3.
RatioOfTheDecision	In other words, there is a degree of ambiguity, particularly on the part of defendant No.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 as to whether the defendant No.3 is the sole and exclusive owner of the said property or whether it also belongs to the defendant No.2.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, there is no confusion with regard to the stand that the said property does not at all belong to the appellant‟s <NAME> (defendant No.1).
RatioOfTheDecision	27.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the replication, as pointed out earlier, the appellan t / plaintiff has sought to introduce a new dimension to the case by making an allegation that the said property is not the self-acquired property of the defendant Nos.2 and 3.
RatioOfTheDecision	The appellant / plaintiff had also filed an amendment application under Order 6 Rule 17, CPC to introduce new para 12 B in the plaint where she has taken the plea of joint ancestral property.
RatioOfTheDecision	However, as pointed out above, the appellant did not press for a decision on this application at the time when IA Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	291/2005 and 8444/2005 were being argued before the learned single Judge.
RatioOfTheDecision	In any event, the plea of joint ancestral property has been sought to be introduced only by way of an amendment to the plaint after the defendants had filed their written statements.
RatioOfTheDecision	It cannot be said as to whether the amendment, which has been sought, will be allowed by the learned single Judge or not.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, as on the date on which the learned single Judge passed the order, there did not exist any plea of joint ancestral property in the pleadings of th e parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	Furthermore, what is important is to examine the stand taken by the appellant / plaintiff in the plaint which unfortunately had not been alluded to by the learned counsel for the appellant.
RatioOfTheDecision	In para 2 of the plaint, it is merely stated that the property bearing No.18-A, Ring Road, Lajpat Nagar-IV, is the matrimonial home of the plaintiff since 1994 and that she is currently residing in the first floor of the said property and the defendants are living on the ground floor due to strained relations between the parties.
RatioOfTheDecision	28.
RatioOfTheDecision	In paragraph 8 of the plaint, it is alleged:-  "The defendant Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 and 3 permitted the Defendant No.1 to live with "<NAME>" in the matrimonial home of the Plaintiff with ulterior motives of driving the Plaintiff from the matrimonial home."
RatioOfTheDecision	From the said averment, it is discernible that even as per the appellant‟s / plaintiff‟s understanding, the said property, which the plaintiff was regarding as her „matrimonial home‟ belonged to defendant Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 and 3 and the defendant No.1 o nly had permission to live in the same.
Precedent	29.
Precedent	In para 12 of the plaint, it has been averred that the plaintiff feared for her life and was filing the suit to protect her rights "in her matrimonial home".
Argument	The plea taken was that she feared that she would be "summarily thrown out without due process of law".
Argument	It was also stated that:-   "... the defendants are trying to sell the house.
Precedent	They have already taken possession of a house being 201, Jor Bagh, New Delhi for their residence."
Precedent	30.
RatioOfTheDecision	Two things are clear from the averments made in the plaint.
RatioOfTheDecision	The first is that it is nowhere alleged in the plaint by the appellant / plaintiff that the said property, which the appellant / plaintiff was referring to as her matrimonial home belonged to or was owned by her <NAME> (defendant No.1).
RatioOfTheDecision	In fact, there is no averment in the plaint that the defendant No.1 had any right, title or interest or share in the said property.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no averment that the property did not belong to the defendant No.3 exclusively.
RatioOfTheDecision	As pointed out  above, it can be inferred that the appellant / plaintiff was of the view that the property actually belonged to the defendant Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 and 3.
RatioOfTheDecision	The other point which emerges from the averments contained in the plaint is that the suit was filed to protect her rights in her „matrimonial home‟ as she feared that she would be summarily thrown out without due process of law inasmuch as she had learnt that the defendants were trying to sell the house.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is in this context that the prayer (b) of the plaint, which seeks the grant of a decree of a permanent injunction restraining the defendants from forcibly dispossessing the plaintiff out of her "matrimonial home" without due process of law, gains importance and significance.
RatioOfTheDecision	31.
RatioOfTheDecision	Thus, looking at the totality of the circumstances and the pleadings as well as the order X, <ORG> statements, it cannot be said that the learned single Judge was off the mark when he observed that there is no dispute that the suit property belongs to the defendant Nos.
RatioOfTheDecision	2 and 3.
Precedent	Therefore, th e first point of attack that the conclusion of the learned single Judge was founded on a wrong premise, falls to the ground.
Precedent	32.
Precedent	In order to examine the other points urged by the learned counsel for the appellant to the effect that the conclusion of the learned single Judge that the appellant / plaintiff could not claim any right in the property of the mother-in-law was erroneous and that the learned single Judge in so holding had virtually dismissed the suit itself without recording any satisfaction on the facts, it would be necessary for us to consider the decisions cited at the bar as also the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005 (hereinafter referred to as „the said Act‟).
Precedent	We shall first examine the decision of <ORG> in the case of <NAME> (supra) wherein a question arose as to whether the right of maintenance of a Hindu lady, includes the right of provision for residence.
Precedent	<ORG> held as follows:-    "19.
Precedent	Maintenance, as we see it, necessarily  must encompass a provision for residence.
Precedent	Maintenance is given so that the lady can live in the manner, more or less, to which she was accustomed.
Precedent	The concept of maintenance must, therefore, include provisions for food and clothing and the like and take into account the basic need for a roof over the head.
Precedent	Provision for residence may be made either by giving a lump sum in money, or property in lieu thereof.
Precedent	It may also be made by providing, for the course of the lady's life, a residence and money for other necessary expenditure.
Precedent	Where provision is made in this manner, by giving a life interest in property for the purposes of residence, that provision is made in lieu of a pre-existing right to maintenance and the Hindu lady acquires far more than the vestige of title which is deemed sufficient to attract Section 14(1) ."
Precedent	FAO (OS) 341/07 Page 21 of 38  33.
Precedent	Next, we refer to the decision of <ORG> in <CITATION_11266> : 2005 (3) SCC 313, which is a decision which was relied upon by a learned single Ju dge of this court in the case of <NAME> (supra), which in turn, was referred to by the learned counsel for the appellant.
Argument	In <NAME> (supra), in the context of a deserted wife continuing in possession of a property in which her <NAME> was a tenant, <ORG> observed that there was no precedent, much less a binding authority, from any court in India dealing with such a situation.
Argument	However, <ORG> noticed that English decisions could be found.
Argument	The following passage from Lord Dening‟s Book  - The Due Process of Law - was quoted by <ORG>:-  "A wife is no longer her <NAME>'s chattel.
Argument	She is beginning to be regarded by the laws as a partner in all affairs which are their common concern.
Argument	Thus the <NAME> can no longer turn her out of the matrimonial home.
Argument	She has as much right as he to stay there even though the house does stand in his name.
Precedent	...
Precedent	Moreover it has been held that the wife's right is effective, not only as against her <NAME> but also as against the landl ord.
Precedent	Thus where a <NAME> who was statutory tenant of the matrimonial home, deserted his wife and left the house, it was held that the landlord could not turn her out so long as she paid the rent and performed the conditions of the tenancy."
Precedent	34.
Precedent	After considering several other decisions, under English law, <ORG> noted the Matrimonial Homes Act, 1983 applicable in England.
Precedent	The preamble of that Act stated that it was an Act to consolidate certain enactments relating to the rights of a <NAME> or wife to occupy a dwelling house that has been a matrimonial home.
Precedent	The <ORG> noted that one of the several rights expressly provided for by the Matrimonial Homes Act, 1983 in England was that so long as one spouse had a right to occupation, either of the spouses could apply to the court for an order requiring the other spouse to permit the exercise of that right.
Precedent	The <ORG> Court observed as under:-  "32.
Precedent	In our opinion, a deserted wife who has been or is entitled to be in occupation of the matrimonial ho me is entitled to contest the suit for eviction filed against her <NAME> in his capacity as tenant subject to satisfying two conditions : first, that the tenant has given up the contest or is not interested in contesting the suit and such giving up by the tenant-<NAME> shall prejudice the deserted wife who is residing in the premises; and secondly, the scope and ambit of the contest or defence by the wife would not be on a footing higher or larger than that of the tenant himself.
Precedent	In other words, such a wife would be entitled to raise all such pleas and claim trial thereon, as would have been available to the tenant himself and no more.
Precedent	So long as, by availing the benefit of the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act and Rent Control Legislation, the tenant would have been entitled to stay in the tenancy premises, the wife too can continue to stay exercising her right to residence as a part of right to maintenance subject to compliance with all such obligations including the payment of rent to which the  tenant is subject.
Precedent	This right comes to an end with the wife losing her status as wife consequent upon decree of divorce and the right to occupy the house as part of right to maintenance coming to an end.
Precedent	33.
Precedent	We are also of the opinion that a deserted wife in occupation of the tenanted premises cannot be placed in a position worse than that of a sub-tenant contesting a claim for eviction on the ground of subletting.
RatioOfTheDecision	Having been deserted by the tenant-<NAME>, she cannot be deprived of the roof over her head where the tenant has conveniently left her to face the peril of eviction attributable to default or neglect of himself.
RatioOfTheDecision	We are inclined to hold - and we do so - that a deserted wife continuing in occupation of the premises obtained on lease by her <NAME>, and which was their matrimonial home, occupies a position akin to that of an heir of the tenant-<NAME> if the right to residence of such wife has not come to an end.
Precedent	The tenant having lost interest in protecting his tenancy rights as available to him un der the law, the same right would devolve upon and inhere in the wife so long as she continues in occupation of the premises.
Precedent	Her rights and obligations shall not be higher or larger than those of the tenant himself.
Precedent	A suitable amendment in the legislation is called for to that effect.
Precedent	And, so long as that is not done, we, responding to the demands of social and gender justice, need to mould the relief and do complete justice by exercising our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution.
Precedent	We hasten to add that the purpose of our holding as above is to give the wife's right to residence a meaningful efficacy as dictated by the needs of the times; we do not intend nor do we propose the landlord's right to eviction against his tenant to be subordinated to wife's right to residence enforceable against her <NAME>.
Precedent	Let both the rights co- exist so long as they can."
Precedent	35.
Precedent	However, in B.P.
Precedent	Achla Anand (supra), the appeal filed by <NAME> was dismissed because, in the meanwhile, a decree for dissolution of m arriage by divorce based on mutual consent had been passed.
Precedent	<ORG> noted that it was not the case of <NAME>, the appellant, that she was entitled to continue her residence in the tenanted premises by virtue of an obligation incurred by her ex <NAME> to provide residence for her as part of maintenance.
Precedent	Consequently, <ORG> held that she could not, therefore, be allowed to proceed with the appeal and defend her right against the claim for eviction made by the landlord.
Precedent	36.
Precedent	The third decision of <ORG> in this line is that of <NAME> (supra).
Precedent	In that decision, <ORG> took a view similar to that in <NAME> case (supra) that maintenance, in the case of a Hindu lady, necessarily must encompass a provision for residence.
Precedent	<ORG> reiterated that the provision for residence may be made either by giving a lump sum in money or property in lieu thereof.
Precedent	It may also be made by providing, for the course of the lady‟s life, a residence and money for  other necessary expenditure.
Precedent	37.
Precedent	The final decision in this line of cases is that of <ORG> in S.R.
Precedent	Batra (supra).
Precedent	The facts before <ORG> in S.R.
Precedent	Batra (supra) are somewhat similar to those in the present case and it would, therefore, be instructive to refer to them in some detail.
Precedent	<NAME> married <NAME> and started living with him in the second floor of the house belonging to <NAME>‟s mother.
Precedent	It was not disputed that the said house at B-135, Ashok Vihar, Phase-I, Delhi belonged to <NAME>‟s mother-in-law and not to her <NAME> <NAME>.
Precedent	Cross divorce petitions were filed by <NAME> and <NAME> and because of this discord, Smt <NAME> shifted to her parents residence.
Precedent	She alleged that later on, when she tried to enter B-135, Ashok Vihar, she found the main entrance locked and consequently she filed a suit for mandatory injunction to enable her to enter the house.
Precedent	However, before any order could be passed in the said suit, Smt <NAME>, alongwith  her parents, allegedly broke open the locks and entered the said property.
Fact	Another aspect was that <NAME> had shifted to his own flat in Mohan Nagar, Ghaziabad before the said litigation had ensued.
Fact	In the said suit, the trial Judge granted temporary injunction restraining the appellants therein from interfering with the possession of <NAME> in respect of the second floor of the said property.
Fact	In appeal, the Senior Civil Judge, Delhi, by his order dated 17.09.2004, held that <NAME> was not residing in the second floor of the premises in question and that her <NAME> <NAME> was not living in the said property and the matrimonial home could not be said to be a place where only a wife was residing.
Precedent	He also held that <NAME> had no right to the properties other than that of her <NAME> and consequently dismissed the temporary injunction application.
Precedent	Thereafter, a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India was filed before <ORG> whereupon a learned s ingle Judge of this court held that the second floor of the property in question was the matrimonial home of <NAME> and he further held that even if her <NAME> <NAME> shifted to Ghaziabad that would not make the Ghaziabad home the matrimonial home of <NAME>.
Precedent	On this reasoning, the learned single Judge of this court, held that <NAME> was entitled to continue to reside in the second floor of B-135, Ashok Vihar as that was her matrimonial home.
Precedent	<ORG> disagreed with the view taken by the learned single Judge of this court.
Precedent	Referring to an earlier decision in the case of <CITATION_1642416> : 1987 (4) SCC 183, <ORG> observed "whereas in England the rights of the spouses to the matrimonial home are governed by the Matrimonial Homes Act, 1967, no such right existed in India".
Precedent	38.
Precedent	A reference was made to the following observations in <NAME> (supra):-  "... it may be that with change of situation and complex problems arising it is high time to give the w ife or the <NAME> a right of occupation in a truly matrimonial home, in case of the marriage breaking up or in case of strained relationship between the <NAME> and the wife."
Precedent	FAO (OS) 341/07 Page 26 of 38  However, <ORG> in S.R.
Precedent	<NAME> (supra) observed that the aforesaid extract was merely an expression of hope and it did not lay down any law and that it was only the legislature which could create a law and not the court.
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> further held:-    "17.
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no such law in India, like the British Matrimonial Homes Act, 1967, and in any case, the rights which may be available under any law can only be as against the <NAME> and not against the <NAME>-in-law or mother-in-law.
RatioOfTheDecision	18.
Argument	Here, the house in question belongs to the mother-in-law of Smt.
Precedent	Taruna <NAME> and it does not belong to her <NAME> Amit <NAME>.
Precedent	Hence, Smt.
Precedent	Taruna <NAME> cannot claim any right to live in the said house.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	Appellant No.
Precedent	2, the mother-in-law of Smt.
Precedent	Taruna <NAME> has stated that she had taken a loan for acqu iring the house and it is not a joint family property.
Precedent	We see no reason to disbelieve this statement."
Precedent	39.
Precedent	Thereafter, <ORG> considered the provisions of the said Act and particularly the concept of a "shared household" under Section 2(s) of the said Act as also the provisions of Sections 17 and 19(1) thereof and repelled the argument that since <NAME> had lived in the property in question in the past, therefore, the said property was her „shared household‟.
Precedent	<ORG> observed as under:-    "26.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the aforesaid submission is accepted, then it will mean that wherever the <NAME> and wife lived together in the past that property becomes a shared household.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is quite possible that the <NAME> and wife may have lived together in dozens of places e.g.
RatioOfTheDecision	with the <NAME>'s <NAME>, <NAME>'s paternal grand parents, his maternal parents, uncles, aunts, brothers, sisters, nephews, nieces etc.
RatioOfTheDecision	If the interpretation canvassed by the learned Counsel for the respondent is accepted, all thes e houses of the <NAME>'s relatives will be shared households and the wife can well insist in living in the all these houses of her <NAME>'s relatives merely because she had stayed with her <NAME> for some time in those houses in the past.
RatioOfTheDecision	Such a view would lead to chaos and would be absurd.
RatioOfTheDecision	27.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is well settled that any interpretation which leads to absurdity should not be accepted."
RatioOfTheDecision	<ORG> finally held as under:-    "29.
RatioOfTheDecision	As regards Section 17(1) of the Act, in our opinion the wife is only entitled to claim a right to residence in a shared household, and a 'shared household' would only mean the house belonging to or taken on rent by the <NAME>, or the house which belongs to the joint family of which the <NAME> is a member.
RatioOfTheDecision	The property in question in the present case neither belongs to <NAME> nor was it taken on rent by him nor is it a joint family property of which the <NAME> <NAME> is a member, it is the exclusive property of appellant No.
RatioOfTheDecision	2, mother of <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	Hence it canno t be called a 'shared household'.
RatioOfTheDecision	30.
RatioOfTheDecision	No doubt, the definition of 'shared household' in Section 2(s) of the Act is not very happily worded, and appears to be the result of clumsy drafting, but we have to give it an interpretation which is sensible and which does not lead to chaos in society."
RatioOfTheDecision	40.
RatioOfTheDecision	From this line of cases, it is apparent that the concept of maintenance, insofar as a Hindu lady is concerned, necessarily encompasses the provision for residence.
RatioOfTheDecision	Furthermore, the provision for residence may be made either by giving a lumpsum in money or property in lieu thereof.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may also be made by providing, for the course of the lady‟s life, a residence and money for other necessary expenditure.
RatioOfTheDecision	Insofar as Section 17 of the said Act is concerned, a wife would only be entitled to claim a right of residence in a "shared household" and such a household would only mean the house belonging to or taken on rent by the <NAME>, or the house which belongs to the joint family of which the <NAME> is a member.
RatioOfTheDecision	The prop erty which neither belongs to the <NAME> nor is taken on rent by him, nor is it a joint family property in which the <NAME> is a member, cannot be regarded as a "shared household".
RatioOfTheDecision	Clearly, the property which exclusively belongs to the <NAME>-in-law or the mother-in-law or to them both, in which the <NAME> has no right, title or interest, cannot be called a "shared household".
Precedent	The concept of matrimonial home, as would be applicable in England under the Matrimonial Homes Act, 1967, has no relevance in India.
Precedent	41.
Precedent	In the light of the aforesaid principles, the appellant / plaintiff would certainly have a right of residence whether as a part of maintenance or as a separate right under the said Act.
Precedent	The right of residence, in our view, is not the same thing as a right to reside in a particular property which the appellant refers to as her „matrimonial home‟.
Precedent	The said Act was introduced, inter alia, to provide for the rights of women to secure housing and to provide for the right of the women to reside in a shar ed household, whether or not she had any right, title or interest in such a household.
Precedent	42.
Precedent	Let us now look at the relevant provisions of the said Act.
Precedent	They are:-  "2.
Precedent	Definitions.
Precedent	- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,  (a) "aggrieved person" means any woman who is, or has been, in a domestic relationship with the respondent and who alleges to have been subjected to any act of domestic violence by the respondent;  xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx   (q) "respondent" means any adult male person who is, or has been, in a domestic relationship with the aggrieved person and against whom the aggrieved person has sought any relief under this Act:  Provided that an aggrieved wife or female living in a relationship in the nature of a marriage may also file a complaint against a relative of the <NAME> or the male partner;  xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx  (s) "shared household" means a household where the person aggrieved lives or at any stage has lived in a domestic relationship either singly or along with the respondent and  includes such a household whether owned or tenanted either jointly by the aggrieved person and the respondent, or owned or tenanted by either of them in respect of which either the aggrieved person or the respondent or both jointly or singly have any right, title, interest or equity and includes such a household which may belong to the joint family of which the respondent is a member, irrespective of whether the respondent or the aggrieved person has any right, title or interest in the shared household."
Precedent	43.
Statute	Chapter IV of the said Act deals with the procedure for obtaining orders or reliefs.
Statute	The said chapter comprises of Sections 12 to 29 .
Statute	Section 12 provides for the making of an application to a Magistrate seeking one or more of the reliefs under the Act.
Statute	Section 17 relates to the right to reside in a "shared household".
Statute	Section 18 prescribes the protection orders which the Magistrate may pass on being prima facie satisfied that domestic violence has taken place or is likely to take place.
Statute	Section 19 conte mplates the residence orders that may be passed by the Magistrate on being satisfied that domestic violence has taken place.
Statute	Since the said provisions of Sections 17 , 18 and 19 are relevant, they are set out in full hereinbelow:-  "17.
Statute	Right to reside in a shared household.
Statute	- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, every woman in a domestic relationship shall have the right to reside in the shared household, whether or not she has any right, title or beneficial interest in the same.
Statute	(2) The aggrieved person shall not be evicted or excluded from the shared household or any part of it by the respondent save in accordance with the procedure established by law.
Statute	18.
Statute	Protection orders.-The Magistrate may, after giving the aggrieved person and the respondent an opportunity of being heard and on being prima facie satisfied that domestic violence has taken place or is likely to take place, pass a protection order in favour of the aggrieved person and prohibit the respond ent from-  (a) committing any act of domestic violence;  (b) aiding or abetting in the commission of acts of domestic violence;  (c) entering the place of employment of the aggrieved person or, if the person aggrieved is a child, its school or any other place frequented by the aggrieved person;  (d) attempting to communicate in any form, whatsoever, with the aggrieved person, including personal, oral or written or electronic or telephonic contact;  (e) alienating any assets, operating bank lockers or bank accounts used or held or enjoyed by both the parties, jointly by the aggrieved person and the respondent or singly by the respondent, including her stridhan or any other property held either jointly by the parties or separately by them without the leave of the Magistrate;  (f) causing violence to the dependants, other relatives or any person who give the aggrieved person assistance from domestic violence;  (g) committing any other act as specified in the protection order.
Precedent	19.
Precedent	Residence orders.-(1) While dis posing of an application under sub-section (1) of section 12 , the Magistrate may, on being satisfied that domestic violence has taken place, pass a residence order -  (a) restraining the respondent from dispossessing or in any other manner disturbing the possession of the aggrieved person from the shared household, whether or not the respondent has a legal or equitable interest in the shared household;  (b) directing the respondent to remove himself from the shared household;  (c) restraining the respondent or any of his relatives from entering any portion of the shared household in which the aggrieved person resides;  (d) restraining the respondent from alienating or disposing off the shared household or encumbering the same;  (e) restraining the respondent from renouncing his rights in the shared household except with the leave of the Magistrate; or  (f) directing the respondent to secure same level of alternate accommodation for the aggrieved person as enjoyed by her in the shared household or to pay rent  for the same, if the circumstances so require:  Provided that no order under clause (b) shall be passed against any person who is a woman.
Precedent	(2) The Magistrate may impose any additional conditions or pass any other direction which he may deem reasonably necessary to protect or to provide for the safety of the aggrieved person or any child of such aggrieved person.
Precedent	(3) The Magistrate may require from the respondent to execute a bond, with or without sureties, for preventing the commission of domestic violence.
Precedent	(4) An order under sub-section (3) shall be deemed to be an order under Chapter VIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) and shall be dealt with accordingly.
Precedent	(5) While passing an order under sub-section (1), sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), the court may also pass an order directing the officer in charge of the nearest police station to give protection to the aggrieved person or to assist her or the person making an application on her behalf in the implementation of the order.
Precedent	(6)  While making an order under sub-section (1), the Magistrate may impose on the respondent obligations relating to the discharge of rent and other payments, having regard to the financial needs and resources of the parties.
Precedent	FAO (OS) 341/07 Page 32 of 38  (7) The Magistrate may direct the officer in-charge of the police station in whose jurisdiction the Magistrate has been approached to assist in the implementation of the protection order.
Precedent	(8) The Magistrate may direct the respondent to return to the possession of the aggrieved person her stridhan or any other property or valuable security to which she is entitled to."
Precedent	44.
RatioOfTheDecision	Another important provision is Section 23 which empowers the Magistrate to grant interim and ex parte orders on the Magistrate being satisfied that an application, prima facie, discloses that the respondent is committing or has committed an act of domestic violence or that there is a likelihood that the respondent may commit an act of domestic violence.
RatioOfTheDecision	The ex parte order may be passed on th e basis of affidavits of the aggrieved person in terms of, inter alia, Sections 18 and 19 against the respondent.
RatioOfTheDecision	Section 26 of the said Act prescribes that any relief available under Sections 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 and 22 may also be sought in any legal proceedings before a civil court, family court or a criminal court, affecting the aggrieved person and the respondent, whether such proceeding was initiated before or after the commencement of the said Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	45.
RatioOfTheDecision	From the aforesaid provisions, it is clear that the expression "matrimonial home" does not find place in the said Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is only the expression "shared household" which is referred to in the said Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	"Shared household" is defined in Section 2(s) to mean a household where the person aggrieved lives or at any stage has lived in a domestic relationship either singly or along with the respondent and includes such a household whether owned or tenanted either jointly by the aggrieved person and the respondent, or owned or tenanted by either of them in respec t of which either the aggrieved person or the respondent or both jointly or singly have any right, title, interest or equity.
RatioOfTheDecision	The „shared household‟ also includes such a household which may belong to the joint family, of which the respondent is a member, irrespective of whether the respondent or the aggrieved person has any right, title or interest in the shared household.
Precedent	The word "household" has not been defined in the said Act, however, Black‟s Law Dictionary, 9th Edition defines „household‟ in the following manner:-  "household, adj.
Precedent	Belonging to the house and family; domestic.
Precedent	household, n. (14c) 1.
Precedent	A family living together, 2.
Precedent	A group of people who dwell under the same roof.
Precedent	Cf.
Precedent	FAMILY.
Precedent	3.
Precedent	The contents of a house."
Precedent	46.
Precedent	In contrast, the impression that we get by reading Section 2(s) , which defines "shared household" is that the "household" which is referred to in the said provision, relates to the property and not just to the group of people who dwell under the same roof or the family living together .
Precedent	Therefore, we are of the view that the word "household" used in Section 2(s) actually means a house in the normal sense of referring to a property, be it a full-fledged house or an apartment, or some other property by any other description.
Precedent	This is also clear because the expression "household" has been referred to as a place where the person aggrieved lives or, at any stage has lived.
Precedent	It also refers to a property whether owned or tenanted or in which the aggrieved person or the respondent has any right, title, interest or equity.
Precedent	Therefore, in order to fall within the meaning of "shared household" as defined in Section 2(s) , it is essential that the property in question must be one where the person aggrieved lives, or at any stage, has lived in a domestic relationship, either singly or alongwith the respondent.
Precedent	It also includes such a property whether owned or tenanted either jointly by the aggrieved person and the respondent or owned or tenanted by either of them in respect of which either of them or both  jointly or singly have any right, title, interest or equity.
Precedent	It also includes a property which may belong to the joint family of which the respondent is a member, irrespective of whether the respondent or the aggrieved person has any right, title or interest therein.
Precedent	<ORG> has already observed in S.R.
Precedent	Batra (supra) that the definition of "shared household" in Section 2(s) is not happily worded, but the courts have to give it an interpretation which is sensible and which does not lead to chaos in society.
RatioOfTheDecision	In this backdrop and in the facts and circumstances of the present case, the property in question cannot be considered to be a shared "household" because neither the appellant / plaintiff, nor her <NAME> (defendant No.1) has any right, title or interest or equitable right in the same.
RatioOfTheDecision	The property may belong to defendant No.3 exclusively or to defendants 2 and 3 jointly, but it certainly does not belong to the defendant No.1 or the appellant / plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	The position as it exists today also does  not indicate even prima facie that the property in question is the property of a joint family of which the defendant No.1 is a member.
RatioOfTheDecision	Therefore, in our view, the property in question does not fall within the expression "shared household" as appearing in Section 2(s) of the said Act.
Precedent	47.
Precedent	Section 17 of the said Act deals with the right of every women in a domestic relationship to reside in the shared household and, Section 17(2) , specifically provides that such a woman shall not be evicted or excluded from the shared household or any part of it by the respondent save in accordance with the procedure established by law.
Precedent	In other words, the wife can be evicted or excluded from the "shared household" after following the due procedure established by law and it is not an absolute right of the wife to reside in a "shared household".
RatioOfTheDecision	However, in the present case, we need to go into this aspect of the matter because Section 17 in itself would be inapplicable in view of the fact that the property in question cannot  be regarded as a "shared household".
RatioOfTheDecision	The residence orders that may be passed under Section 19 are also subject to the Magistrate / court being satisfied that domestic violence has taken place.
RatioOfTheDecision	All the residence orders also relate to a "shared household".
RatioOfTheDecision	Consequently, Section 19 would also not come in the aid of the appellant / plaintiff.
RatioOfTheDecision	48.
RatioOfTheDecision	The learned counsel for the appellant had also referred to single <ORG> decisions of <ORG> and <ORG> in the cases of <NAME> (supra) and <NAME> and Padmavathi(supra) to indicate instances of cases where the <ORG> decision in <NAME> (supra) was distinguished.
RatioOfTheDecision	Those decisions are single <ORG> decisions and that too of other high courts and are, therefore, of no precedential values insofar as this <ORG> is concerned.
RatioOfTheDecision	We feel that in view of the prima facie finding that the property in question does not belong to the appellant‟s / plaintiff‟s <NAME> nor does he have any share or interest in the sa me, there is no question of the said property being regarded as a "shared household" in terms of Section 2(s) of the said Act.
RatioOfTheDecision	We also find that the expression "matrimonial home" is not at all defined in the said Act and the concept of the matrimonial homes as prevailing in England by virtue of the Matrimonial Homes Act, 1967 cannot be applied in India as pointed out in <NAME> (supra) and <NAME> (supra).
RatioOfTheDecision	There is no doubt that the appellant / plaintiff has a right of a residence whether as an independent right or as a right encapsulated in the right to maintenance under the personal law applicable to her.
RatioOfTheDecision	But that right of residence does not translate into a right to reside in a particular house.
RatioOfTheDecision	More so, because her <NAME> does not have any right, title or interest in the said house.
RatioOfTheDecision	As noted by <ORG> in the case of <NAME> (supra) as well as in <NAME> (supra), the right of residence or provision for residence may be made by either giving a lumpsum in money or property in lieu t hereof.
RatioOfTheDecision	In the present case, we have noted earlier in this judgment that the learned single Judge had recorded that alternative premises had been offered to the appellant / plaintiff, but she refused to accept the same and insisted on retaining the second floor of the property in question claiming it to be her „matrimonial home‟.
RatioOfTheDecision	49.
RatioOfTheDecision	We must emphasise once again that the right of residence which a wife undoubtedly has does not mean the right to reside in a particular property.
RatioOfTheDecision	It may, of course, mean the right to reside in a commensurate property.
RatioOfTheDecision	But it can certainly not translate into a right to reside in a particular property.
RatioOfTheDecision	In order to illustrate this proposition, we may take an example of a house being allotted to a high functionary, say a Minister in <ORG> and who resides in the same house alongwith his wife, son and daughter-in-law.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is obvious that since the daughter-in-law and son reside in the said house, which otherwise is a government accommodation allotted to the <NAME>-in-la w, the same could be regarded as the house where the son and daughter-in-law live in matrimony.
RatioOfTheDecision	Can the daughter-in-law claim that she has a right to live in that particular property irrespective of the fact that the <NAME>-in-law subsequently is no longer a Minister and the property reverts entirely to the Government?
RatioOfTheDecision	Certainly not.
RatioOfTheDecision	It is only in that property in which the <NAME> has a right, title or interest that the wife can claim residence and that, too, if no commensurate alternative is provided by the <NAME>.
RatioOfTheDecision	50.
RatioOfTheDecision	In view of the foregoing discussion, no interference is called for with the impugned order and we also feel that the learned single Judge has amply protected the appellant / plaintiff by directing that she would not be evicted from the premises in question without following the due process of law.
RulingByPresentCourt	The appeal is dismissed.
RulingByPresentCourt	The parties shall bear their respective costs.
RulingByPresentCourt	<NAME>, J <NAME>, J October 26, 2010 dutt
